s

TO
oT.
uw. 0. 16

FROM,
SUBJECT

 

ge CED ER ord

 

en & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION

INTERNAL ConMESPoNDeNcE © ' File 29-83

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

F. EB, McKEOWN : : RECT

GT. Reid R.A. Veatch

MON. Schefiala No Noall - Action —
PIS, Weasel! rot
K, Corlett

eA, Wilicts, I /es pate 4/3179

Diners Field Trip Report - Spanish Market

   

 

On 3/8 and 3/9, represental,

 

 

s of the Bra

 

a Group, Ted Bates, and

the B&W Esles Force called on Spanish retail outlets in the Phoenix
metro area, The objectives of this trip were as follows.

Key Cbs

Evaluate ROOL!g performance {all styles) at predominantly Hispanic
retail cutlets.

Evaluate Hispanic marxet performance of all brands and segments
in general to determine growth opportunities.

Evaluate in-store presence of al] brands and in-store promotional
activity.

 

The Hispanic market in Pheenix is clearly a full-taste non-menthel
murket. Marlboro an¢ Winston are far and away the leading brands.
At best, menthol usage among Hispanic smokers is about equal to the
E al average (30%), In ne way does menthol usage in the Hispanic
community resemble that of the Black community. There does not
appear to be any stigma asgociated with menthol cigarcttcs however,

 
      

KOOL and Salem full-taste styles are neck and neck in the Phoenix
Hispanic market but neither is considered by siore managers to be
a fast mover in compazisen to Marlboro and Winston,

Low 'tar' brands, menthol and non-menthol, nave exhibited only
marginal growth among Hispanics according to the trade. Roughly
10-20% of brands stocked in stores in the heart of the Hispanic com-
munity were hi-fi's.

 

Very litile promotional activity was observed at retail in the Hi nie
market, A few American “pack tape-on" displays were observed as
well ag some blister pack lighter offers far Decade. The receptivity
of the trade ic on-pack promotional items varied. Cigarette coupon
redemption was reported to be low to non-existent.

 

  

 

SILEISOLG