MEMORANDUM VS : b a

   
 
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
  
     
    
 
 
  
   
   
 
   

TO: BROUGHTON
cc: Mr. B. Dy Cummins tee ‘My. J. M. Shadle
' ) Mr. D. §. Johnston 7 : Dr. G.E. Stungis

   

Mr. R.A.” Pittman Mr. G. P. Ward

FROM: “MR. RB. A. COLFMAN/bIh Ce

 

DATE: May 14, 1979 Pe

a
SUBJ; MANAGEMENT SUMMARY -. post EVALUATION OF STORE PROFILE

We have completed a post evaluation of the Store’ Profile system,
Our conclusion and the more significant findings | are. Summarized
below hoe 2 wipes) vi . Sey ages 2 nast

   

Conclusion woe MK, Ma

    

It is our ‘opinion that an effective system which provides the
management information proposed by. the Store Profile systen (SPs). is *.
essential for. timely marketing decisions.’ A great deal of work”
has gone into developing the System, and many benefits have been

realized. ‘However, not,all of. the benefits anticipated were

achieved, and projected costs.of development and operation were

exceeded. We noted some significant problems/weaknesses in devel-
opment," implementation, and use of the Store Profile System which
have “had the effect of reducing“the effectiveness of “those” benefit
sathieved.'~ These problems are detailed in our findings and recom
dations. “If these problems {many of which are. ‘currently being 1
addressed) can effectively be overcome, we believe the reporting ©

system that evolves from $Ps will be able to. provide | extremely
valuable ttanagement informati

 

1, Credibility - Full benefit of ‘the ‘SPS accomplishments, has
> not been realized: due toa lack of crédibility in the minds
Of users. Some causes for this lack of credibility are:
(a) insufficient training in its-use and capabilities; (b).
Much of the data base has not beén updated since February, 197
“(¢) the sdles representatives. are being evaluated based. upon 42
data they input to the system; and (d) problems were experienced
when SPS and the “Interim Activity Reporting System were 1%
= implemented before some @evelopmental requirements thad been con.
* pleted. : vs -