PHILIP MORRIS U. S. AL
INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE —
LS .” RECHMOND, VIRGINIA

 

Tos. Dr. E. B. Sanders oo ares “os. pater January 12, 1982

From: a. Grubbs dnd R, Southwick

Subject: . Kudzu As Tobacco Flavoring Source ~*~

 

 

“In 1978, workers from the Japan Tobacco and Public Salt
. Corporation published an account of the constituents :of an
.... . essential oil of kudzu,. a plant indigenous to Japan. Investi- ...-
“worn gation of the oil was prompted by a much earlier report that et Ry RR
= Kudzu leaves could be a good substitute for tobacco. Of ° ; Te
particular interest was the finding that. the essential oil con— |
. tained damascenone, approximately 2mg per 1l0kg of leaf, as well .
“as lesser amount of megastigmatrienones. The quantity of © =. -
* damascenone in kudzu is significantly greater than is found in ....
> ~ rose flowers, where it was first discovered, or in tobacco, for
“.. ? .Which. damascenone is.a significant flavor contributor.  .+;" -

  

-<="""Kudzu is an introduced species currently rampant in the wT

-'* southeastern United States. The plant was introduced by USDA =~... -

--:-with the expectation that it would provide erosion control and ou
cattle feed. Neither of these goals were completely. successful;
in particular, cattle appear to place kudzu leaves at the very
bottom of their dietary preferences, somewhere. between pine
needles and starvation.. As a consequence, the rapidly propagating
kudzu plant has not had any effective natural restraints and
presently covers large areas in the Southeast. In the Richmond
area, which appears to lie on the northern boundary of its range,

' several large patches may be observed along Interstate 95 near
Colonial Heights. Loe . -

 

cone co. ok, Oe a: oO ..
--. Prior to the. onset of the growing season for kudzu, which - sae
- _ additive, we made plans to conduct a cursory longitudinal study 3 ~
. Of kudzu leaves. From information in the literature, it was a
not clear at what stage of leaf development the Japanese workers :

had obtained their material. They reported that the leaves were is

collected in November, 1976, in Yokohama and describe them as ©
“aged kudzu leaves".

 

coincided with growing interest in using damascenone as a flavor at
Oo
=

We determined that our requirements were a source of leaves
which would be available during the complete growing season,
would be exposed to minimal environmental contamination and would
not be nor had not been treated with herbicides. Permission was
obtained to collect leaves at a site-in Goodwin Lake State Park,
The first collection was made in late June, about one month after
leaf appearance. This particular crop was investigated in several

ways to determine which method of investigation would be most
expedient.

The green leaf was air-dried and then a portion (380g) was
extracted in a Soxhlet with methylene chloride. Approximatel

       

oot etwas BEL: oe nasil