PHILIP MORRIS INCORPORATED _INTER-OFFICE CORRESPONDENCE

120 PARK AVENUE, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10017

 

TO: Distribution DATE: February 8, 1984

FROM: Sandra Pecan APp-

suuECT: Summary Of Leonard Zahn's Report on the American Heart
Association Annual Meeting, November 14-17, 1983

The American Heart Association held its annual meeting in
Anaheim, California, November 14-17, 1983. There was a record
turnout of physicians from around the country with more than
1,700 presentations. Press coverage was extensive, but the
smoking reports attracted little attention.

To further emphasize the smoking and heart disease issue, the
AHA had the Surgeon General's November 17 press conference
piped into the press room. A statement was then issued by the
AHA on its reactions to the Surgeon General's report:

"Viewed over the long term, the cost in human
lives from continued smoking is staggering. As
many as 10% of all Americans now alive may die
prematurely of heart disease related to their
smoking behavior...this means 24 million premature
deaths due to smoking....The American Heart
Association pledges to continue unrelenting
efforts to make the American public more aware of
both the grievous dangers of smoking and the
health benefits that can quickly come from its
cessation...."

According to Leonard Zahn, reporters from the major media left
coverage of the Surgeon General's report to their Washington
bureaus and paid little attention to the AHA's statement.

Highlights of the meeting follow:
SMOKING AS A RISK FACTOR

Aaron Folsom, Minneapolis, reported on a study that assessed
the use and possible health risks of low-yield cigarettes (15mg ag
or less of tar). Levels of serum thiocyanate (a metabolic ©
product. of hydrogen cyanide which is in the gas phase of the jad
main stream of cigarette smoke) and cigarette brands smoked ei
were determined in 2,561 adult smokers who were among 9,106 3
persons participating in two heart disease risk factor surveys aj
in seven upper midwestern communities from 1980 to 1982. a}
=
“J

Findings indicated that compared to 1980 data for the country
as a whole, a greater proportion of smokers in these

communities smoked low-yield brands. Low tar brands were more
popular with women than with men. There was no relationship