Foust, Cassandra P._ a a _ Pe)

From: Matthews, Ellen W.
Sent: Monday, March 12, 2001 1:19 PM
To: Foust, Cassandra P.

Subject: RE: RJ Reynolds Consumer Relations Web Site--Form Filled Out

Cassandra -- just two minor changes. Ellen

——Original Message-----

From: Foust, Cassandra P.
Sent: Monday, March 12, 2001 1:08 PM
To: Matthews, Ellen W.

Subject: FW: RJ Reynolds Consumer Relations Web Site—Form Fitled Out

Ellen, can you please look at the response to a consumer inquiry (see below) before | send to Consumer Relations.
Jan and | did discuss last week before she left. If you think it needs to wait for her approval, I'll inform C.R.

Tnx --- Cassandra

PS.
Hang in there. Just think about that beautiful beach house you'll be enjoying in just a few short weeks :) :)

Dear Mr. Leighton:

We appreciate your layalty to the Doral brand of R.J. Reynolds Tabacco Company. We are sorry that you have chosen
not to collect the cards affiliated with the Celebrate America Collector Cards program. <<We created the program as a
way for Doral to say thank you to those smokers who do collect as a hobby.>>

The Celebrate America Collector Cards program is one more way that Doral is giving back to its customers and is
intended to give extra value to our adult smokers. The cards were developed in response to the interests of Doral
smokers. We surveyed Doral smokers about their interests and hobbies last year and nearly half of them told us that
they are "collectors." The Doral collector cards align with these adult smokers’ general interest in collectibles.

The intent of the program is absolutely not designed to get you to smoke more cigarettes. We've found that most of
our smokers have enjoyed reading and collecting these cards and would << be able to collect most of the cards

through their normal purchases of Doral. »nevitabh-be able.to come across-all of the cards;

-----Original Message-----

From: RJRT Consumer Relations
Sent: Wednesday, February 28, 2001 1:11PM
To: Matthews, Ellen W.; Foust, Cassandra P.

Ce: Reese, Bonnie L.
Subject: FW: RJ Reynolds Consumer Relations Web Site-Form Filled Out

How should we answer this, "ruse to get me to buy more"?

Thanks,
Mary Ann Usrey

neon Original Message-----

From: lunkerbuster@bellsouth.net [mailto:

Sent: Friday, January 12, 2001 2:47 PM

To: consumer@rjrt.com

Subject RJ Reynolds Consumer Relations Web Site-Form Filled Out

Full Name: Williarn James Leighton

Street Address: 3130 Crump Ave

City: Memphis, TN. 38112

State: TN

Zip Code: 38112

E-mail Address: lunkerbuster@bellsouth.net
Date of Birth: 12-01-1938

Smoker: yes

SrPO ccSes