YY; Kwa ABSTRACT FORM
25th ‘T obacco Chemists Research Conference

Louisville, Kentuck October 6-8, 1971

 

1, Abstract should be not less than 125 words .nor more than 225 words. It should
be included in the space designated below. - oe

- 2. Original should be on this form and the origin
other type, are requested. (For format,

al and three copies, carbon or
see Sample Abstract enclosed. )

3. Please note: (a) Title is all capitals.
(>) Location follows author name if multiple authors are at

different locations.
(c) Presenting author is underlined.

(a4) Use single spacing.
4, Projection requirements: 3" x 4-1/4"
5. Estimated delivery time: Minutes.

6. Abstract should be received not later than July 23, 1971.

”, Mail original and 3 copies of Abstract to: Dr. Robert C. Benedict, Eastern
Regional Research Laboratories, U.S.D. A., 600 East Mermaid Lane,

Wyndmoor, Pennsylvania 19118 —

1

 

 

3 2" x2" Other

 

AUTOMATED METHOD FOR THE DETERMINATION OF PLASTICIZERS
IN CIGARETTE FILTER ROD MATERIAL

-A. J. Sensabaugh and Kenneth L. Rush, R. J. Reynolds
Tobacco Company, Research Division, 115 Chestnut Street,
- Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 27101 _ \

An automated method is proposed for the colorimetric determination of triacetin and
riethylene glycol diacetate plasticizers in cellulose acetate cigarette filter rods.

Should the identity of the plasticizer be unknown, initial testing must include a

imple qualitative analysis by GC. Sample preparation consists of-extraction of
Then the reaction of the extracted

nlasticizer from the filter material with methanol.
Acetate with hydroxylamine, followed by an addition of ferric chloride, yields a
The absorption maximum of the

4ferric hydroxamate complex, producing a violet color. 1
omplex is at 500 nm and follows Beer's Law from 0-800 ug/ml. The optical density range

is 0.00-0.700.

The simplicity of this procedure lends itself well to use with automated instrumenta-
jon. It has*been adapted for use on the Robot Chemist which permits the performance of
-Bnalyses at a rate of 120 per hour, less the standards necessary for a concentration
k equally well for either triacetin or: triethylene:

urve. The method has been shown to wor
hlycol. diacetate, after selection of the appropriate standard for use in construction of

r angard
. i” oy | & x 7-1/2 —

{
foo,
to
t

'

’

1

 

OfSL SE6OTS