Muy 9, 1958

A SUMMARY OF THE QUANTITATIVE CHANGES WHICH OCCUR lL
IN SOM OF ‘INE CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL CONSTITUENTS
OF JOUACCO PURLNC TH NATURAL AGING PROCESS

SAMPLING:

 

 

For a period of seven years, tobacco samples representative of each crop
year were taken to study the quantitative changes which occur in fone of
the chemical and biological constituents of tobacco during the natural

Both flue-cured and burley tebaccos were taken fron the

aping process.
Specific markets were

major growing regions from 1952 through 1958.
selected which wore widely separated and considered to be representative
of the major bulk cf fiucrcurcd and barley: tobaccos purchased by the
Company. Samples fer the aging project were taken from these szaine
markets each year. The belts and markets which wore selected were

(1) GEORGIA - Blackshear Market, (2) SOUTH CAROLINA ~ Mullins Market,
(3) BASTERN CARGLINA ~ Kinston Market, (4) OLD BELT - Winston-Salem Market
(5) TENNESSRE - Greeneville Market, and (6) RKENIUCKY ~ Bloomfield Market.
Samples representative ef both lug and lcai types of ‘tobacco were included

as sampling variables.
A practical core sampling preceduxe was developed to provide subsannles
from experimental hogshcads for laboratory analyses. It was shown that
the core senpling precedure used in this work yielded representative and
repradunihte saanles- Samales for both chernical and microbiological
nivece vere taken using escentielly the same procedure; the only

BNLAYS se wee OOM Sy
a
s usec Lor

aiffermer being that a completely sterile coring apparatus was
taking the saxples for microbiological analyses. Tobacce core samples
vere also used for the purpose of making cigarcites for subsequent sisoking
The apparatus used for taking the core
2 sharp

cas, eta annantictts:

tests during the aging study.
samples was an electric power drill and a hollow auger fitted with

cutting edge.

ROUTING CHEMICAL ANALYSES 3
rte he eet ee a oe Pn ee + rene pormmmam nay me ana ee

A quantitative evaluation of total alkaloids, nicotine, total nitrogen,

af moisture, and pil (slurry) in aging tobacco was
After redrying, the hogshead
Subsamples

potassium, chioride, le
made for six crop years (1°53~1958) .
samples were placed in warehoure storage for natural aging.

were teken at periodic intervals, curing the natnral aging preeess, and

analyzed for total alkaloids, nicetine, total nitregen, potassium,

chloride, leaf moisture, and pil (slurry).

It was fou that the net changes which occur in these constituents of

fluceeured and burley tobacco, after two years of mtural eging, arc
eaten fie s- eet
Wate LUluwsy FL paeres every

characterized by sipntficant vet decieases in iotal
and pi (slurry), (see Ysbies XY and J). On the averege, Chere are no
significant net changes in total nitresen, potassium, or ciloride.
Significant changes other thon net changes wiso eceur in toial alkaloids,
wicoting, teral nitrogen, cd pn (slurry) cuxi
in Slucecurca and burlcy tobaccos,

.

ww

ng the netured agirg process

 

Loel SSGTOS