“RESPONDENT ‘FORM FOR DEALING “arty TeLEPWone SURVEYS

be bulnh (PGESST Tht

 

oe

As @ wmenber of « @ very select group of RIR employees working ons sensitive end
‘eritical Project for the Conpany ; you ‘way Secons the target Of -soné rather
tesophisticated “infornation probes. © One unique and not commonly used method for
| <Butside agencies ‘to gather “information that might not otherwise becone .
“aveilable is Sy 6 -télephone "survey": “In fact thers are @ good many dapitinate
‘eurveys ‘that ‘ere ‘conducted by telephone. “Our response; ‘as RIR employees, ;
‘should ‘be to néver answer “télephone eurveys, Yegitimate of wndts° En fact some
‘legitimate epencies ‘night “even be used unsuspectingly for ‘devious reasons.
‘Therefore, we believe that you may be well served by using the outline below
‘whan contacted for telephone survey information. “This format should give you
‘an opportunity to pather information on who is calling you. - “By sharing this
“information with your management, we can better understand “how to maintain
security all] the way to market, plus get some insight into what and who we
might have to Seal with along the way.

Foro seat. cde tk nee denies 4

The questions listed below should ‘essict you to that end.

Bree aed
Tree. rt

1. ‘How did. you happen ‘to get my name and telephone number?

2. What did you say the name of your organization was, where ere you located?
3. Who is your client for this survey? © 9 7 5%!

+4. “What geographical area of the country sre you covering in ‘the survey? .

5S, Can-you tell we tow this survey information will be ‘sised? °'*°

s. ‘Are you pramarity pethering your ‘Information ‘from corporate RED fecilities?
7. What kind of confidentiality does your firm assure on “this survey?
7. 47f a ‘Pos! ’ response is offered, ask do they offer that in writing?)

ror .
‘8. I'n inte ed in assisting legitimate causes that offer a true benefit to
_%. wy profebsign, community or company, but J's kind of picky for whom I

enswer survey questions. Also I have to attend @ meeting in a few mi

@o why don’t you just drop your questionnaire in the mail, and I'l} depo

111 it out in wey spare time. By ‘the way, do you have ea phone number

could reach you at?
aye : Reet ob -f, .e3 t
If they do ‘send the questionnaire, it is probably Jepitinate,, but there is no

Quarantee. Therefore, we request that you turn the survey form over to your
management | Bo ‘that we way review @t further.” <8 20%: Foe Fteset eos

wk be BLT Te BP ORT a % Tie Psu bay y 1a¥e Ob dian Reh

Paves gad i gts aac ‘el afeer co at at one 7 ot fig de the. dese:
Cgc. $8 ayate yout: tame er nine. foo sie 8 oe ee or tee Bees ehy nee Bere
Ayes Arpad Ne cane FF you dont’ Haagen ve ar otieett get at ei bey

y

Sty PR OR ONE FETE Bb a eet? El pg NS POC EGA oe id arte

 
  

te me

pore Shae? the TT BL op OR bg HE ewe og PL Ga 8

  
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

7

a
+ Ss .
fA