site Ret eevee de en Hei

2 RR TP OED or ge eee

FEE ee a cae eR NEL om Eo wee te

in org ‘oO Rave to BLuOSU LLL anOroveg LOL use lO Ue pr ae Wit

_ investments are required in research and administrative effort. Considering the small market

to be expected for a substitute LFF process, it is not likely that anyone would make that.

". jnvestment within the foreseeable future. If somebody does, approvals are more uncertain and
a will take longer than for CFC 12, maybe some tenyeas. She el a te ee

Ye

"eee?

Even if the substitutes are very similar to CHC 12, the equip rent will req ui re consi derable . oe
tment as long as the uncertainty just °°

development. This will hardly appear:to be-a good
mentioned prevail. 6 ee

*

er:

Many LFF processors feel uneasy Sey
them are already switching to other methods. Considering that an investment will last for

_ some 20 years, any processor would need to see the public accept the new chémicals for quite |
. some time, before they would be prepared to tie themselves to a.continuing association with =.

HFCs. mee

eo,

that any will be done in'the future, 0 7-2 fetsatse e

ALS Summary and Conclusions os

The consumption of CFC'12 for food freezing in 1986, worldwide, was estimated to be about
3,400 tonnes, used in some 30 units. The major part of this oonsumption (about 3,000 tonnes)
was located in the USA. The process, called "Liquid Freon Freezant )”, was used

primarily to freeze seafood and cern-on-the-cob (with a CFC consumption of aboyt1,500 .

tonnes for each product) and raspberries. Most of the equipment was installed before 1974
but has a long expected life. nn , a, oe Sa

This CFC consumption can be totally eliminated using currenily available alternative freezing

methods - primarily the cryogenic techniques (LIN), which use'liquid nitrogen, and air blast

: freezing. These methods are already competitive for most products, excépt for some grades of 7

Tawshnmp. 9 | . aa

Forsome shrimp processors, process development and/or investment in more than one _

process may be necessary. Many shrimp processors are small enterprises. Some may not be. _ he

able to sustain development costs or survive poorly utilized investments. . ..

- New chemicals such as HFC 134a can. theoretically be used in modified LFF units. The higher ; :

cost, the need for extensive testing and approval for use in direct-contact with food, and the
cost of retrofitting equipment, as well as the anticipated public reaction, however, make it

- very unlikely that this option will be chosen...

Pia teraciossiteg OO

\. CFC'11 is used to reduce the bulk density of cigarette tobacco. The shredded tobacco is

sou the association of thelr product with CFCS Sevéralot

"No work has been conducted on the iase of HFC 134a for this application and itis unlikely =

in liquid CFC 11 and is then passed through a kiln, where the CFC evaporates, puffs... a

. . .
s
ee

and thereby the amouint-of tar-per ¢igarette,"

~ oo .

The process originated inthe USA and is also used by European and Asian cigatette eran
manufacturers. It is the most widely used expansion process. =: > ss

0 ORFTACHMENT PO .

eS eM os

yp the tobacco and decreases thé. tobacco density. This reduces the amount of tobacco used: .

POTS 68LOS