ee a Os ow wn ee oo

. $s i . °
reer, Or. 5S, Saunders and myselt at which the situation was
scussed in detai}, analyses rom the 1988 and prev tous crops
the coming and future crops was discussede ae. Mtoe Pron lem. in
. . ues
that he be kept fully advised of our progress in this campaign.

JAN. 11, pp990 ~ I met with Mr. R, English, Director of Imported

PA'S’ posith en and pea ney concerning this naren omy imageneral ae
PM was certainly concerned about Phe issue and that iF S

would take the lead fn or anizing a campaign in Turk '
other Oftented PEpduc ing ountrigs, PM Pwon id offer Ye rete
vocal Support in these efforts,

JAN. 19, 1990-4 meeting was held with the PM and BAT Orienta]
Leaf managers in Izmir to discuss the situat on and to outline a

campaign oO attack this issue in the coming 1990 crop, It was
decided to proceed a ong the same lines as our previous y

successful 1988 crop campai nh against. the misuse of En sulfan
products. . P campaign ag 's . e. dosu

JAN. 22, 1990 = A meeting was held with the Board of Directors of |

the Aegean Vobacco Exporters Association. The probiem was
discussed tn deta »_ Possible consequences to the To acco trade
were emphasized, and the general outline for action decided at
the above meeting was explained. The full support. and
cooperation of the assocfation was assured.

990 - A meeting wa with the following members: of

1:
Y. Ozden - Chairman and Genera] Manager.
asay > Assistant General Manager

K
bili = Manager, Leaf Toba cO Commercial Section
Or. G. aged! - Manager. lea? Tobaces Research and Quality Contro}

Accompanying me at this meeting were:

Mr. E. Qzgener ~ President, Aegean Tobacco Exporters’ Assoctation |
Mr. D. CaSey - Area Manager, PM Izmir a,
Mr. J. Downie - Area Manager, BAT Izmir

Here again the rob iem was_discussed: in detail and ‘the serious
otenttal consequences to Turk ish Obacco exports was emphasized,

he general outline o ;
upon” with areas of responsib y, Clearly defined. Mr. Ozden
tppropr iate"mansgers to give Ene chuoeig ened erulfeeucrat, sre
cooperation and to ‘report directiy” to him on the efforts and

progress,

-FEB, 26, 1990 -A questionnaire was drawn up by this off ice in

order to conduct a genera Survey of the farmers fn t

growing areas (see attachment 1). The purpose Of this survey W

0 assess tendencies in the usage of all the j ultu

chemicais in Turkish tobacco Cultivation. | The text of ‘this
: ted by the Board of 9D rectors of The

egean Tobacco Exporters’ . Association and 1,000. copies were

of the largest mer t. companies during the oe iowing week.
While the survey was conducted largely gt Yandom in all the major
Prat anedizeg, in, he previaus Prop ang ehteneet"pee, febRCCD Fad
e

high or low end of the res fans range were specifically targeted.

1 $_held
e Turkish State Monopoly (TEKEL) General Management Stat? in.

Aegean.

‘inted. The survey was conducted by the field’ statt o several