RCN BY: RUIKT GOVT. RELATIONS 2 4e E-92 FTE OGPM oe 236 568: ~

-~

wee we

ta re re

f

Response to State Attorneys General

R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co.
July 1, 1992

Key Points:

Q

Dr. DiFranza, a principal author of the JAMA studies, has
said, “None of these studies were designed to show that
these Camel ade increased smoking among kids.*

Joe Camel and Mickey Mouse were not equally recognized in
the total study.

Dr. Joseph DiFranza has admitted to bias and research
manipulation in his work that purports Camel hag 32% of
youth smokers.

Youth smoking is on the decline in the U.S., while youth
disapprovabeof smoking is increasing. -

Recognition of advertising does not translate drito usage or
changed attitudes about smoking.

The Journal of the American Medical Association reports that

teen smoking can be reduced by as much as 50% through
compliance with existing minimumeage laws.

Background facts:

The statement Joe Camel is as well recognized as Mickey
Mouse 4s one of the most incorrect headlines in this
controvarsy. The article shows that 91.7% of the 229 kids
in the study recognized Mickey Mouse as the Disney logo,
51.1% recognized Joe Camel as a cigarette illustration -- a

40-point gap. The 23 6-year-olds in the study came closer
to recognizing the two equally, but 23 kida in one school -
are in no way representative of the entire U.S., and the ~
flawed methodology of the survey affected this result.
Also, recognition does not change the negative recognition
kids have about smoking.

Dr. Joseph DiFranza, the principal author of the article on
Canel's share of the youth market, has admitted to the press
that there is bias and manipulation in his research on
Camel. The purpose of his work, ha says, was to "give us a
couple of smoking guns to bring to the media." He has
acknowledged that, "None of thease studies were designed to
show that these Camel ada increased smoking among kida." He
outlined the final article more than a year before its
publication, writing a research colleague, "There, the paper
6 ail ready. Now all we need ia some data."

LOC H2STS