ADDRESS
PHONE:
INCORPORATED:

PURPOSES:

CURRENT
MEMBERSHIP:

PRIMARY
CONSTITUENCY
SERVED:

FUNCTIONS:

CONFIDENTIAL

MINNESOTA TOBACCO LITIGATION

—
S
Z
——
~~]
an
am
aN
re

In 1959 as a nonprofit, nonpartisan association.

To promote the lay control of and responsibility for
education; to lead the effort to improve the quality of
education in our democratic society; to advocate equality of
access to educational opportunities for students in ail states
anc territories; to enable state boards of education*® to study
issues of mutual concern, and disseminate and exchange
information; to encourage cooperation among state boards of
education and all other boarcs, agencies and organizations
concerned with education; and to advocate those plans and
programs wnich accomplish the above purposes.

Forty-five states plus the District of Columbia, Guam,
Micronesia and the Northern Mariana Islands are voting members
of the association. In the state of Wisconsin, which has no
state board of education, the chief state school officer is a
voting member. Each state board of education pays annual
dues. (The dues amount varies according to the expenditures
in each jurisdiction for elementary and secondary education.)

State boards of education. Two affiliates--the NASBE Legal
Conference, and the Association of Executive Secretaries to
tate Boards of Education--serve state board attorneys and

executive secretaries.

NASBE assists state education leaders by providing:

o liaison with federal and Congressional offices and
national organizations

o information and technical assistance on emerging
national issues

o boardsmanship training to enhance leadership skills
of state board members

o research assistance to boards and individual board
members

o a codification service for state education policies.

it also encouraces inter-state communication throucn its
annual meeting, area meetings, issue oriefs and newsletters.
In addition, each member receives weekly copies of Education
Times, compliments of NASBE

 

 

1. The phrase “state boards of education” as used throughout the text inciuces
in its meaning territorial boards of education.

TIFL 0527753