Principal investigator/Program Director (Last, first, middle}: Khew-Voon Chin, Ph.D.

BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH

Give the following information for the key personnel and consultants and collaborators. Begin with the principal

INSTITUTION AND LOCATION

Wittenberg University, Springfield, OH 1983 Biology & Chemistry
Rutgers University, New Brunswick, NJ 1988 Pharmacology
National Cancer Institute, NIH, Bethesda, MD 1988-1991 | Molecular Biology

EDUCATION (Begin with baccalaureate or other initial professional education. such as nursing, and include postdoctoral training.}

investigator/program director. Photocopy this page for each person.

POSITION TITLE

  
 
 

 

   

YEAR
DEGREE CONFERRED

FIELD OF STUDY

 
 
   
 
  
     
       
      
 

RESEARCH AND PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE: Conctuding with present position, list, in chronological order, previous employment, experience, and
honors. Key personnel include the principal investigator and any other individuals who participate in the scientific development or execution of the project.
Key personnel typically wiil inciucle ait individuals with doctoral or other protessionai degrees, but in some projects will include individuals at the masters or
baccalaureate levei provided they contribute in a substantive way to the scientific development or execution of the project. include present membership on
any Federal Government public aavisory committee. List. in chronological order. the titles, all authors, and compiete references to all publications during the
past three years and to representative earlier publications pertinent to this application. DO NOT EXCEED TWO PAGES.

Employment and Experience:

1987, Spring

1987, Fall

1988-1990

1990-1991

1991

1991-Present

Awards:

1980-1983
1986-1987
1988-1991

Lectured in Topics in Cellular and Molecular Pharmacology - Methods in
Pharmacology

Lectured in Molecular and Cellular Pharmacology - A Symposium for Advanced
Undergraduates

Post-doctoral Fellow, Laboratory of Molecular Biology, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

Post-dostoral Fellow, Laboratory of Cell Biology, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

Visiting Associate, Laboratory of Cell Biology, National Cancer Institute,
National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.

Assistant Professor, Genetics Centers, Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences,
The University of Texas, Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, Texas.

Wittenberg University Foreign Student Grant
Ciba-Geigy Predoctoral Fellowship

Forgaty International Fellowship

Memberships in Professional Societies:

1989-present
1989-present
1991-Present
1991-Present

American Association for the Advancement of Science (Member)
American Society for Microbiology (Member)
American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology (Member)

American Association for Cancer Research (Member)

 

PHS 398 (Rev. 9/91}

(Form Page 6) Page

FF