feateven sem wn. 2 - . 7 ewer

see ee a

“Tue CounciL For TOsacco Lit: SEARCH — U.D.A., ANG. ~
. - 210 EAST oor STREET
. ° ’ NEW YORK. K. ¥. 10022

. July 3, 1975

oh) ennai. Beemer» me Serer me eee oe

Dear . . . - | . .

The Scientific Advisory Board to The Council for Tobacco Research-U.8.A.,
Inc., in carrying out its comission to sponsor a broad progrem of research into
tobacco use and human health, has foun it useful to hold informal, unpublicized,
roundtable-conferences on a variety of subjects. Such meetings have been held
on cardiovascular effects of nicotine, psycho-physiological aspects of smoking,
. dung pathology, chronic respiratory diseases, carcinogenesis and many other
subjects. .

The Board: 4s now planning ta hola enother conference focusing on areas
‘ related to the etiology ani pathogenesis of chronic respiratory diseases.

. The purposes of the meeting are to: .

(a) ‘ eppreise the present state of knowledge in relation to the
overall dctions of proteases and inhibitors, including such
ereas as activators of pro-enyzmes, the roles of macrophage
anfi leucocyte, and particular especta of the inmunological
systens, in order to,

(vo) 4nduce an 4nterchange of ideas, develop perspective,

flo sy (c) S22.uminate nev research areas ani conceive objectives designed
tw close Gaps in present research efforts.

“The conference has been tentatively scheduled for the period Monday,
September Bth through Tuesday morning, Septexber Sth, of this year, at The Council
offices in New York City. ;

a, Your work and interests are considered significant to the general area
to be discussed, and The Counci\ very cordially invites you to atteni this meeting.

a We ‘look forward, hopefully, to receiving your acceptance, and to know
' whether ‘you would be willing to make a short presentation, reviewing your particular
dnvostigations against the a: aims of the conference. Informality in presentation
& stressed, .

Out-of-pocket expenses will be paid by The Council,
Further Snfornation will be, forwarded to you in the near future.
Bincerely, |

td

‘ _ — David Stone, Ph.D.