4pril 10, 1959

Dr. irnest iu. synder

' bloan-Kettering Institute
i. wast 68th Street

New York, Yew York

Dear Dr. “ynder: , ¢

 
 
  
  
   

I am enclosing herewitn a copy of a letter ch I wrote to the
American Tobacco Gompany on February 6, 1957\\ This morning I

read in the “Wall street Journal” about the Vipwa which you exe
pressed at ixeelsior Springs, “issour
ang chemicals in cigarette tobacco, <

    
      
   
      
 
 
   
  

Ne will start oieking and curing et
1Sth of June thia year and i inté, tak
defore curing; after curing in/the fumegiof an oil flame; after
curing in the fumes of a bottle ; me and after eurlng by
the old fashioned method witha ing furnace, where the
tobacco does not come in contaa products of combus-

sion. If no one else is interest m having these samples
analyzed [ will nave it WE expense,

Lo am not a chemist n ntistvand, except for the
presence of arsenic,/# do not kndw what we should look for in
tne analyses of the i auld very much apprectate it

if you would tell me with this project in order
to maxe it worth whi

3, 30 from our 1958 tobacco field

i c togethér witn a sample from adjoining land
AcGO nad never been raised. The analyses showed no
he 1953 tobacco land. This can be ex-
we have not in recent years used any
cnemicals| gontaining apgenic and the 1958 tobacco land nad never
aks YS. he production of bright tobacco in
somparatively new; land, until recently,

was very ch@apYaendtebacco was almost never grown more than -
once on a piece OF land, except with rare exceptions. bright
toebaceo has been grown for a such larger period in the Carolinas
and until comparatively recently, all of the insecticides con~
‘tained arsenate of lead. I have been informed that arsenate of
lead will remain in the soil for an undetermined Length of time
and that old orchard soils are senerally badly contaminated with
it. I am also informed that certain plants, and tobacco may be
one of them, have the charactertstia of taking arsenicals from

 
 
  

on which
increases