25 Shattuck Street

Boston, Massachusetts 02115

(617) 432-1830

(617) 432-1144 (Fax) <7

Harvard Medical Schoo!
DEPARTMENT OF CELL BIOLOGY

   
 

Dr. Arthur Eisenberg

Council for Tobacco Research
900 Third Avenue

New York, NY 10022

Dear Dr. Eisenberg,

I am writing to seek an invitation to apply for research funding from your agency. Recently, I have been
appointed as an assistant professor in the departments of Pathology and Microbiology & Immunology at the
Stanford University School of Medicine. There, I will begin my independent research career continuing my
biochemical studies on how the cell cycle controls DNA replication in eukaryotic cells. This follows on
work I began in Mare Kirschner's lab originally at the University of California, San Francisco, and now at
Harvard Medical School.

Although my current work is focused on the biochemistry of the cel! ~ “ad replication, my enclosed
curriculum vitae should attest to my long-standing inter-~* My graduate work with David
Baltimore at MIT focused on the role of ah - zukemia. I see my current
work on the normal physiology ~ ting how the cell cycle is
altered in transformed cells and .

Tenclose a general plan of the sp Se hs that broader set of projects
on DNA replication that I will ah 3 “ c \Council to fund is to study
proteins that are stoichiometric in Z 0 Ne »chanisms by which these

proteins inhibit specific steps in DB

showing that one such inhibitor, ci
important for replication: the cycli

have established the importance of «

of Cell Biology. We are currently fi
example, the proteins p27KIP! and, N
kinases and DNA replication. Our di ‘portant for DNA
replication. The funding of our proje york demonstrating the
existence of the novel target and to tes iN , «two-hybrid screen is
indeed this target. Depending on the ps . wae to ask about other novel targets for
the growing family of these inhibitors, _ -, zwentifying the minimal domains of these proteins
required for inhibition, we may be able _ ..uu peptides inhibitors which could serve as beginning models
for drug design, with obvious implications for chemotherapy.

oe 2 (arnt ‘e report in Nature
\2\ ently target two factors
3 NA. More generally, I

AN ublished in The Journal
identified inhibitors, for

t cyclin-dependent

 

Yenclose my curriculum vitae and a general plan for the research project, and copies of three papers relevant
to this work. I will be in full time residence at Stanford beginning December 1, 1995. Until that time, I
will be corresponding from Harvard Medical School. I thank you for your consideration and look forward

to hearing from the Council.

Sincerely,

de

Peter K. J on, Ph.D.
enc.

 

40007049