wee - October 23, 1961

Dr. Ernest Sondheimer

Associate Professor of Plant Blochemistry
State University College of Forestry
Syracuse University

Syracuge 10, Hew York

Dear Boctor Sondheimer:

In reply to your letter of Oetober 10, 1961, we are glad to send
you a set of the forme which we use for filing applications for grants«in-ald.

You are probably aware that all matters of research policy and all
recommendations for grants are the responsibility of our Scientific Advisory
Board, The names of its members are shawn in the enclosed copy of our last
Aunual Report, The enclosed pamphlets will give some indication of the sub«
jects which fall.within the general area of their interest. Whether support
ean be furnished ah, the present time wili depend upon relative priorities of

interest as determined by the present status of the program and in relation
to the budgetary situation.

The best course will be to outline a proposal on the enclosed forms.
The oviginal is interded for this office and the carbon for your own files.
Please note that the sienature of an officer of administration is requested if
~ - the work is to be carried out in a university, hospital or other Inatitution.

Gur Board meets at approximately quarterly intervals. Applications
are circulated to study groups or subcommittees for advance consideration and
then are Listed on the agenda of the next meeting of the Board, following com-
pletion of comaittee work, Sometimes a site visit is co nsidered advisable in
preparation of recommendations.

We could expect an application which reaches us by November 1, 1961
to be placed on the agenda of the meeting which has been scheduled for Decexiber
Buh, 19 ae

We will be very glad to bring any proposal you wish to submit prompt-
iy to the abtention of the subcommittees and the Board.

Sincerely yours,

be Se cA. TF led VN
teoska¢ pg eeloce” € Robeae G. Hockett, Ph.D.

RCH: tih Asgoetate Selentifice Director

eucle. (4) Annual Report « 2 pamphlets application blanks
P. S. Overhead ts ordinarily allowed up to 15% of the budget total exclua«
ive of appropriations for expensive itema of. permanent equipment.
BR » He

fiona BE

ST eer

 

Te BRA Ce BR FRO Bee i Pr aes BERR ISN RARE Ae os EN

   

SUS AE OR Be eS