en eee

 

< pireetor, and we will appreciate your keeping h

i.
a. \
: i

December 27, 1965

a

;

1
?
‘
é‘

Donald J, Massaro, jN.D.

Chief, Pulmonary Diseace Research Laboratory
V. A, Hospiteh {| .

50 Irving Street, °N.W.

Waghington,, D.C, 20422

\

Dear Doctor Massaro: 1

Upon the recommendation of the Scientific Advisory hoard to the

Council For Tobacco Kesearch, a financial grant has been approved in the

amount of 49,870.00, "for study of comparative racial prevalence of chronic

bronenitis”’, in accordance with the application filed by you under date of
October 27, 1965. mo

‘ It is understood that thie grent ie made subject to acceptance
by the appropriate institutional autborities.

? . .

" : the board has taken into account your estimate that the project
“will ‘extend through two yeara, and if ig anticipated that, following @ re-
view-of progress in the first year) and the receipt of an application for
renewal, prior consideration will be given to your needs in the allocation

of fuyis in {he succeeding year.

- ee Please refer to the Statement of Policy containing the condi-
thems apd terms under woidh the aboveementioned grant is to ve administered,

‘k which je enclosed. po

Co in preparisg semiannual progress reports ve will appreciate it
if you will use the format show on the enclosed sample and fursish ws with
‘ 15 copies. We would also like to be advised of any published papers result-
ing from this grant. When reprints arc available we would appreciate 25

copies. ° {

‘ : , ‘
The. Council For Tobacco kosearch will make an announcement of
thie award in the Annual Keport of the Scientific Director and in press re-
. Leases according to eutebdlished practig¢e.

: . Any questions of a acientific nature that may arise concerning

the project should de réferred to br. Robert G, Hockett, Associate Scientific
im informed of progress at

intervals,

. After digcussing the approval of ‘the project with the proper of- .
fioers of your institution, will you please. notify wai gf your acceptance of |

this grant under the stated terns and indicate the date Gpon which it will

become actives. Lo

: A oo yy
t ¢ x 3 . . et . . , .
. ‘ . bo.

a
a