Sa Ta UR Chee .
SP a ace a >: oo. eorwhe. ¢ tos
¢ . ~

- gees April 11, 1980 °% J

ole ee
_7. MEMORANDUM ‘
eo. , . = 2
eo cc: AY

TO: W. T. Hoyt . WUG
| RCH

 

FROM: Leonard S. Zahn

oe SUBJECT: Two San Diego meetings:
vs I. Conference on Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology

oa " IX. Symposium on Alcohol and Cardiovascular Disease
os March 4-5, 1980 .

The two sessions attracted a Large turnout of scientists :
and featured a number of reports based on data from several na- .
tional studies on heart disease. While some of the findings were

| : new in that they were previously unreported, mone was really
significant. There was, however, some interesting material on

cholesterol and cancer incidence. oy

The highlights:. « --. - \
XY. Conference on Cardiovascular Disease Epidemiology

 

. 4. “Cigarette smoking and higa density lipo tein choles—
terol (HDL-C) — the Lipid Research Clinics (LRC) prevalence
atudy" — Michael Criqui, sa Jolla, Cal. He reported on data from
the LRC study covering men and women aged
ar-te North American populations. The study group had two sequen”
tial examinations: at the first, plasma cholesterol and trigly-
cerides were measured; a 15% random sample of participants was re~
called for a second, more extensive examination that included a

-. detailed medical and family history- Criqui's report was based on

ing was associated with a decrease in HDL-C.
however, the LRC data showed this association was
such factors as age, hormone use by women,
take, and regular exercisc, Criqui said. .

He said the evidence supports a causal relationship because?
The decrease in HDL-C associated with smoking 20 or more cigarettos
daily was substantial (11-14%)/ A dose-response relationship was
evident in that subjects smoting 41-19 cigarettes daily had HDL-C
levels intermediate between nonsmokers and heavier smokers. The
HDL-C level of exsmokers in this and other studies resembled those
of never smokers, arguing against the constitutional hypothesis.

we le

‘ - .

_ Criqui said he (the LRC?) planned to study smoking and txi-
glyceride levols. Ho noted that the study did not determine cig- _ |
arotte types (filtor or non-filter) and what effoct this might

wn
wv
&, have. _ 5
: ; 2
c
a
Ww
uw

conard

} *.
ann
FA aed Associahslne
(r. BOX 2231-19 LINZOLN ROAD © GREAT NECK, RY. 25021 © (222) 8247413 / i
29D /

Te REC AN CONSE