© 12/20496 13:46:35 Enhanced > a) Page =?

‘ :
«12/20/90 FRI 12:01 PAK $12 661 2200 58 50 KIRKLAND ELLIS (007

 

 

 

   
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
   
     
  
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
     
    

Oo BtH INDUSTRIES
“a, I. McCarty‘:
‘Dr. T. W. Bu hes

  
 
    
   
  
  
 
    
 
  
  
 
  
  

. "Ape 4, ‘we

te “ ol ony
. us .

 
    
 

a

22 has at. last ‘akveed to fete "hong with the ‘leve2”
‘og funding which’the CTR requested of the ‘Some Jes and which «
p Bay tentatively agreed to in December: ¢ and Loriliard
‘algo are ready to a prove & permanent piavet.” Add Yoanen

;ehortly will ay hed ule a meeting for thig purpose. ee
Ainenardees bo salted cree AD RE RE tag ok
fiAmerioan, ‘RJR and Pu contigue to harbor doubts ‘conserning the ‘2?
‘operation and diregtion of CTR, 1 think Agerican will not vote. .
sven the budget wut will agree to pay their share of the ?ul) .
rh pCfunding. You will remenber Mr. Heimann's letter dated 14,
aie) December 6 to Add Yoaman, ‘The letter tock strong exception !
vito the program of directed, contract work under which the -;
pistat? of CTR plana and directs the research. “Heimann says |
4 CTR abould bi be A grantor organization and nothing more. -'In ‘ :
 Helmann's view, CTR should make grants to reputable scientista
who are exploring areas of interest in the smoking and health
controversy and the grantees, as opposed to CTR, Should be.
esponsible for the plan of research, “It 4s a distinotion
without much difference but American embraces it warnly

eS ee aC ean aT petted tear

American has also ‘sonoluded. that part of the central. ‘bervous i ‘
arsyeten/nicotine ‘work poses & question with’ waapect to. ‘the ix ie
,agsurances witch the pauies gave to the Justice Department |}:
Sto the effect, that mone gf fhe “aoilentifia ‘work at’.CTR would x
fee he ‘ola “application, / Philip Morris’and Lorillard ji
an Goncur the yiew. that some ‘Sf ‘the gentral nervous syston
fi: (CNS) work: “hee ‘gonmercial overtones,” apeeitically ‘work ‘whic
would lead: fe ae agente , or rs ee in dean a
IRS aS PGE EL I eh OS uty
The Committee of Counsel has worked out the: ‘following “Gompronis “
hich all companies seem ready to accept and which is eatisfactory
o Auerican. The CNS work under contract and already ‘going tat i
orward will continue, © ‘Before CTR embarks on any new, work ih {70 |
hig aroa, boweyer, we need to take a long look at it fron Sets @
Hf the atandpoint of possible commercial overtones and perhaps, LES
before the CIR start aubaites material in this ares to SAB
owe pre-screening will be ‘needed to avoid raiging ‘the antl es
rust risk... ea is hag mig  ebdetaaan fi

        
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
     

 
 

  

 

          

   
  

   

a ae
a ay: eae

aaa

SB7o 690CS