BROWN & WILLIAMSON
TOBACCO

April 30, 1998

Corson & Vout Reape bn Beces
400 South teh Aone. Scots 200
Ms. Magen Kelsay He sutie, RY 40202
Marketing Coordinator ‘ ' hs : ae v3 sue

The United States Junior Chamber of Commerce oo a

P.O. Box 7 Mrs. Corky Newton

Tulsa, OK 74102-0007 tee

AR? SON TIT]
bax SH. AOS-SIT]

Re: JAYS Project

Dear Magen:

The purpose of this letter is to clarify our agreement regarding Brown & Williamson

Tobacco Corporation’s support of your program to reduce youth smoking. Brown &
Williamson is committed to the prevention of tobacco use among teenagers and children,

and thus is pleased to pledge support for your JAYS Project in the amount of $30,000.

The following terms and conditions shall apply to our agreement:

(1) Brown & Williamson understands that the program will be implemented and
conducted according to the general terms outlined in the Project Proposal, dated
April 30, 1998. As acondition to providing funds, Brown & Williamson reserves the
right to immediately withdraw such funding (and you agree to return any funds
previously provided and not yet committed) in the event that the Project is

implemented or conducted in a manner which varies from the description of the
project in the above referenced Proposal.

(2) In connection with this project, Brown & Williamson may wish to provide
educational materials, logos, or other promotional items to participants for the
Purpose of supporting the youth smoking cessation/youth smoking avoidance goals
of the program if you wish to use them. However, Brown & Williamson stipulates
that its name only be used on such logos or other program materials which Brown &
Williamson has approved in advance. You further agree that you will not use Brown
& Williamson’s name in connection with the Project in any public statement, whether
oral or written, in the event Brown & Williamson withdraws funding in accordance
with the above paragraph.

(3) You agree and acknowledge that Brown & Williamson has the right to publicize its
support for the Project.

(4) You agree to provide Brown & Williamson with quarterly written reports detailing
the results achieved under the Project programs.

Brown & Wiltiamson Tobacco Corporation A member of the British American Tobaeco Group

208000362
PRODUCED FROM BéW WEB SITE