. TECHNICAL PROCESSES DIVISION
\ OF COLONIAL ALLOYS COMPANY
. 12350). MEAY HASPSIORE AVENUE
ATLANTIC CITY, NEM JERSEY 05401
(G09) 344-3528

March 28, 198u

University of California
San Diego, California

*

Att: James R.. White .
Physiologist

Dear Mr. vite,

Re: Your study on Passive Smceke

, New England Journal of Medicine.
It ig indeed heartening that at long last scientific evicence is

-available to show the harmful effects of passive smoke on non smokers.

We have done vesearch on less harmful effects of cigarettes for
the non smoker and the smoker himself for over 20 years, The results
of our research have produced a number of patents which have a major
effect of reducing the sidestream smoke to almost zero, thus removing
the very dangers to the lungs of the non smoker. St ae

You have stated "I think the protection of human health is very
important. I'm one who really detests legislation, but I wouldn't
have any idea how to protect non smokers without some type of
legislation", We have this answer.

Our developments in this area are based on coating the cigarette
paperwith a well known, safe compound which has been documented over
the years to be clear, tasteless, odorless, inert, non carcinogenic
and non ellergenic, releasing only a small amount of water vapor into
the smoke stream. - - - ,

The applied compound forms an insulating cover over the puraing |
eoal which, in turn, slows the burning rate of the cigarette between

puffs, without interfering with the quantity, guality and taste of the
puff, .

The state of California has tested our cigarette development for
its properties of fire resistance, Enclosed is a copy of their report.

The Department of Hoalth, Education and Welfaro tested an earlier
version of our cigarette devolopmont with test results showing about
20% less "tars", nicotine and carbon monoxide in the mainstream amoke
and about 60% lesa "tars", nicotine and certain gases in tho sidostream
smoke. See enclosad results of their report.

 

The logislative needs should rather bo dirceated towerd cigarettes
that (a) do not affect tho nen snoker Co} thet sel Peerbinentah atthe

out causing smoldering or ignition to flammable furniture coverings >

. Continued . .
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT .

FOR
OVER HAIDA CTNTURY

T10384-0086