THE THEATRE

:New Plays in Manhattan

' The: Male Animal (by James Thurber
& Elliott Nugent; produced by Herman
Shumlin) provides Broadway—in a season
tich only in comedy-—with another comedy
hit. A frail, rachitic tyke of a play, with
barely enough clothes to cover it, The
Male Animal manages to captivate by its
impish tongue and winning smile. It re-
sembles a dinner party where there isn’t
nearly enough food but where the conver-
sation is so amusing that nobody minds.

. James Thurber, famous for iustrating
The War Between the Sexes with his run-

James THurzer (SELF-PORTRAIT)
Good conversation, not enough food,

away pencil, has curried the combat to the
stage. The Male Animal tells of a young
English professor (Elliott Nugent) .who
has all the trouble that Thucher thinks the
male animal is born to. The prof gets
branded a Red for wanting to read one of
Vanzetti’s letters to his class. He gets all
tingled up with his wife when an old
sweetheart of hers comes to town for a
football game. A Milquefoast by nature,
the professor’ quaiis too much of the cup
that emboldens, and in 2 hilarious drunk
scene decides to hold his mate as bull ele-
phants, swans, land crabs do—by fighting
for her. He does hold her, but not with
his fists; it turns out that the old beau's
interest is only pigskin deep.

The Male Animal serves up its bit of
plot successively as roast turkey, creamed
turkey, turkey hash, scraps, soup, and
bones for the dog. Fortunately, Play-
wright Thurber’s insane, melancholy stant
on life fills the play with fresh and free-
flowing laughter. Frustration is leavened
jnto nonsense, indignation is alkalized by
good nature. Admirably cast and directed
by Producer Shumlin, The Male Animal
js a gay evening in the theatre in spite of
being no play at all.

John Henry (by Roark Braslford;
music by Jacques Wolfe; produced by
Sam Byrd) took Paul Robeson back to
Broadway after nearly eight years. The
stage seemed set for a great return. The
play was by the man whose stories had in-

Time, January 22, 1940

 

HERE'S A TIP

distinction...immaculate ivory tips. A
Product of Philip Morris.

MARLBORO

FOR THOSE WHO CAN AFFORD 20% FOR THE BEST

MOST OF THE TIME?

‘That all-shot feeling may be a storm
signal your energy is running low!
Stimulants only drain it more. What
you've got to do is to rebuild your
endurance. This new, amazing way
does the job on women as well as men,

First, build up your endurance by
taking 4 envelopes of Knox Gelatine
daily for 2 weeks, Then, take 2 en-
velopes daily for 2 more weeks. After?
that, take whenever you fee! a slump.
Results in building endurance have
been proved in colleges and hundreds
of controlled test-cases.

Write for Bulletin E. Knox Gelatine,
Johnstown, N. Y. Dept. 64

Knox, the pure plain gelatine in the
familiar grocery store package, is the
only gelatine which has actually proved
this endurance-building property.

HOW TO TAKE: Empty 1 envelope (1,
package) Knox Gelatine in glass “1
full tap water or fruit juice, or 14
water, 14 fruit juice. Let liquid absorb
gelatine. Then stir briskly, drink before

WR TT ALD URLLA

Gt the cantally lo-
aise S
athe, Wataor ee Guide
SSEEING NEW YORK”

HLH. Cummings, Moz.

 

Lote a

DRY POWDER SNOW
UNTIL LATE MAY... in the

CANADIAN ROCKIES

Experi or beginner, there’s every kind of
ski thrill you waat in the snow-clad
Canadian Rockies. Perfect, dry, powder
snow until May... hundreds of runs and
ski teips. Excellent accommodations at
convenient * h-country”” ski ca
Sunshine Chalet and Mount As
Lodge out from Banff; Moun
and Skoki Lodges ncar Lake Louise. Rates
are moderate, Guides and _instroctors
available, Fast Canadian Pacific train
service to Banff and Lake Louise. Canada
welcomes U.S. citizens——no passports.
tsk Your Nearest Canadian Pacific Office
or General Tourist Agent, Montreal

41 Offices in U.S, and Canada

WORLD S GREATEST TRAVEL SYSTEM

 

2061012559