ME st ee ey uk

“Many are finding it harder to cope (36 percent). Others are watching their’
E t “with the problems of‘ daily living now - calories (26 percetit} or eating ore t nu:
‘ : yt than they did a few years ago. Predict- _tritiously (25 percent). : Steet Re ge
A bericin family is caught up in a regi-. _ ably, low-income families and single - At. the same time, “mo Am ns
BS: men” of calorie’ “eounting, cholesterol. parent families are having a particular- yee) that Washington should take an ac-|
Fyyatching, jogging’ through the park and ly difficult time of it. - ‘tive role. in health care. Specifically,.
f;other healthful. pursuits was largely de- "The major source of stress in family . they believe the government should es-
3 pubked in 2 w York. stud ntl ‘life centers on inflation, particularly the tablish a national health insurance plan,
ES ew 0

iN Yising cost of food and medical care. spend more of the health dollar on the
pe while most families. “agree on. the ‘Also cited were fear of crime, concern _old and_ the: poor, . guarantee . product

fineéd for good Preven the health habits, “over personal safety, family problems ‘safety, and sponsor more ‘medical re-
Bit ‘ena the amily and a job and ane to . search for cancer and se ill-
uggie a family and a jo ave ‘nesses, ii the Be Re +f
- lime for leisure. pursuits, °°) Sah 3. Sproq theta rae 42 ‘ercent typi:
Be ‘ * Most Americans agree with the medi: cally the middle-aged and the more af-
« Peant’ ‘way — for example, in quality of | ‘cal experts that stress prevents them’ fluent, dismissed the idea of national’
‘their diets, visits to doctors and dentists from practicing good health habits. Un- ‘health insurance as “a government give-
pand buying new eyeglasses. | ‘like the experts, however, they place away. et
i ‘part of the blame on their own lack of Most ‘Ameri Moat fous in-five.
x vident areas { family ‘motivation, will power and information _ 7 ericans, alm our in five,
Fees i Onesity Sets geen oe a serk about good health practices. +..." * Ay want the government to make sure that
Hous health menace; yet every third fam-” ‘Asked to rate themselves in certain Products are safe despite the fact that.
“ily has at least one overweight member. ‘ “Key areas of health information, eight ‘most. are, confused by all the govern-
Parents ‘who smoke feel they should out of 10 families felt at least somewhat focal workings, it
; quit to set a good example for their chil- knowledgeable about health and nutri- 2 f ‘Among other sreas in which more ac-.
4 -dren, but sete oer of them have tion. On the other hand, only one in 10 “tion or information is needed to help

eded... wget felt well-informed on the ptoms of
re sheen ‘as mental illness. “pies i sym "4 American families live healthie

    

 
    
   

        

    

 
 
 

  
 
 
  

 

  

  

     
 
    
 

      

  

  
  
   
     
 
   
   
  
 
  
   
   
      
    
  
 
 
  
     

 

          

       
 

 

    
       
       
   
    
 

  
 
  
 

 
  

   
      
  
 
  

     

   
        
   
   
  
  

      
  

 

 
   
    
  
 
 
    
       
     
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
   
     
   
  
  
    

ey a ze r
benef that 8 favorite form of exercise is. ‘Tegard mental illness as‘a health prob- 7 ng down.
‘twirling a’ soa ‘dial. The miajor lem denat weakness On personal or. and | building up will power, cee
“health fear is cancer, but only one per- .emotiona e other, > na
-Sori in four considers & physical check-- many manifestations of mental illness ° able Prod ae, eco nd re
up the only wy. to determine if, he is — alcoholism, nervousriess, depression, ~
; ig pf hild abuse -~. are widely viewed as * eid Presenting” “birth-control informa-
‘signs of. personal weakness rather than © ‘ton ‘more effectively to. teen-agers. ”,

Wh gn
€ gospel of good health? What moti- Symptoms of serlous health problems. "i. Increasing the use of nutrition la-
in the few who heed it? The answers Underweight is seen as a health prob- ibels and sing tt the information on |.
jto these and other questions are found> lem, overweight as an emotional weak- them clearer and easier to understand. |
ina panoramic. survey of American = FAS Sst ah as bah a A eA i Ske ae
‘family attitudes ‘On: issues relating to “In any case, a visit fo a psychiatrist or
i*Physical, psychological and emotional. & psychologist would seem to be a last
p well-being. pe mene ; ‘rt’ Tesort, Most families said they would
2) The “survey, con niles by re- try to handle the following problems on
it search firm of Yankelovich, Skelly and their own before seeking professional
[; White Inc. for.General Mills Inc., was help: insomnia (76 percent); smoking
; based on 2,181 interviews in a national 00 much (72 percent); children’s eating
i ‘cross section of 1,254 homes, The mar- -problems (65 percent); children’s tem-
B *gin of error in such a survey is general- Per tantrums (61 percent); marital
if aly plus or. minus 3 percent... “=-problems "(61 percent); depression (59
“The survey reflects the attitudes of Percent); nervousness and anxiety. (55

: percent); fatigue (52 percent) and
: the Coe, ase 58 million families in an drinking problems (48 percent). .

;-sonal health. * »- In interpreting the survey findings at
As Florence Skelly, executive vice a recent news conference, Ruth Clark,

senior vice president of the research
“President of the researc firm, put it firm, pointed out that many signs of

mental iliness could be clearly traced to
¢ ? emerging in the way the American fam-
“fly thinks and acts about health. It res: in today's society, although some

“seems as if there is more commitment ‘Mmilies seek to deny this.

to Joking and feeling terrific right now “The problem is between acceptable
‘than there is to the avoidance of dread stress and things like chronic depres-

7 disease in the future — even if some of sion, which people still want to put in
‘the preventive measures are simple and the closet. They're afraid some ning is
; Inexpensive.” pea +#the matter with them,” she said. ..

“ The title of the study offers a clue to “’-While they admit'to much ‘backslid-
"the pattern: “Family Health in an Era ing, more than four in 10 have made
“of Stress.” Just living, it seems, can be some changes in lifestyle in the name of

* hazardous to one’s health. More ‘than. health. many I for every p the dangers
; eight in 10 Americans cite oo for.

 
 

   
   
 
  
   

   

    
     
         

      
 

       

   

 

  
  

 
 

S9I20roTes

ee

g less S stress in their lives. 7