b

*

WALL STEEET:
“nme «= 9/27 /

 

         

475 Million of Debentures

NEW YORK. -Philip Morris Inc. said

to retire an equal amount af hank debt.

posal has: been registered with the
and Exchange Commission. j-: © cis:

a a
=

Brothers and Goldman,
make the offering.

Philip Morris Plans to Offer

iti
plans: to. publicly offer sometime next month
$75 million of 25-year sinking: fund. debentures

The nation's. fourth-largest cigaret maker,
which also. produces: razors and razor blades, ~ °"*'
toiletries and textile. chemicals, said the pro-
Securities -.

An underwriting team headed by’ Lehman
Sachs & Co. will

JOURNAL
68

 

hinancing Business

a

we oe

“sS

ae

oo

Fey

G2 2S

10074.

     

For Conspiring to Rig

3

 

. By a. Watt STREET JOURNAL Staff Reporter. ;

NEW YORK- Two partners and another
employe of Lybrand,, Ross Bros.. & Montgom-
ery were fined a total of $17,000 for their roles
in certifying Continental Vending Machine
Corp.'s. financial statements: more than: five
years. ago. .

The three members of the big, nationwide
accounting firm were convicted by a jury. last
June in a Federal district court on one count of
conspiracy and two of mail fraud..Carl J. Si-
mon, 44-year-old generai partner in charge of
Lybrand's New York office, received a total
fine of $7,000. Robert H. Kaiser, also 44 and a
partner in the firm, and Melvin S.. Fishman, a
38:year-old' audit manager, were fined. $5,000:
each: The totals included maximum $1,000:
tines on each of the two mail-fraud counts.

David W. Peck, an attorney with the New]
'¥oerk law firm of Sullivan. & Cromwell, which |jended in a hung jury, the Government and de-
represented the Lybrand men, said a: prompt/ifendants both called upon expert witnesses. who
"appeal! would be filed with the U.S. Court of |isharply. contradicted each other over what are
“Appoals, The fines were stayed pending the ap-j'regarded as ‘generally accepted accounting

 

 

 

OO a dt.

 

 
 

Lybrand Employes F ineda Total of $17,000

 

___|took note of the “considerable. difference of
‘Jopinion over whati balance sheet disclosures

fwas needed. ive. mansesne bie

   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

Si

peal. It.isn’t expected that the case will come |
before the appellate court until early next!
year : _

The case has been closely. watched by the
accounting profession and is expected by many
experts in the field to have a far-reaching im-
pact whatever the final outcome. This is be-
cause a key element was whether the three Ly-
brand men violated so-called generally, accept-
ed accounting principles in their dealings with
Continental Vending.
1962, Reports Involved

In essence, the Lybrand men were charged
with conspiring to put. false information in the

vending concern's 1962. financial reports to},
shareholders. and the Securities and Exchange |
Commission, andi with conspiring to leave out
some material facts from the reports.

During two lengthy trials, the first of which

Vending F irm’s Data

principles."" Federal Judge Walter R. Mans:
fleld,, when. he imposed the sentence yesterday.

would have. been appropriate.’ In light of the
jury's verdict, however, Judge Mansfield sug-
gested thati the accounting profession would do
well to revise its accounting principles and
standards. He also suggested that the SEC:
tighten its own regulations if it believed fuller
disclosure. of corporate financial information |:
peoniedees

   

.| grounds and professional standing of the defen-
| dants. Relatives: of the three men, who. were
\.| sitting in the courtroom, wept openly when

 

 

The penalties imposed on the accountants
could have been much stiffer. Each of the
three counts carry. in addition to fines, a possi-
ble. prison term of up to five years. Judge
Mansfield, however, said at the. outset of the
sentencing that he saw “‘no purpose to. be
served" in a jail term, considering the back-

   
  
  
  
   
 
 

Judge Mansfield made the statement.‘ ons

“Sloppy Bit of Business” : a :
Judge Mansfield said the accountants were
guilty of ‘‘a pretty, sloppy. bit of business” in
putting together a footnote for Continenta.
Vending’s 1962 balance sheet. The footnote lat-
‘er turned out to be.a major element in the Gov-
‘ernment’s case. The. Government contended
the footnote misled: readers of the statement
into believing that a major asset in the form of |;
an account receivable from Valley Commercial |!
Corp., an affiliate, was adequately secured by|’
collateral. The Government also. charged that
the footnote covered up the true status of the
| collectibility of the receivable.
’ The Government had charged the footnote
helped conceal the fact that Harold Roth, the
former president of Continental Vending, was
actually siphoning off money. from: the compa-
ny for his’ personal! use through Valley Com-
| mercial, which he also controlled.. ciel
Mr. Roth was named as a defendant, along :
with the three Lybrand men, when a Federal;
grand: jury returned an indictment in October
1966. He later pleaded guilty to one count of
conspiracy andi appeared as a witness for the
prosecution in the accountants’ trial. Mr. Roth
is scheduled to be sentenced Oct. 8. Still open
against him are five mail-fraud counts. «734