New York, New York
ptember 21, 1962 “eyeit way:
ps SE ge Eee Figs 4

pALY REVIEW =

   
 
  

By Jack Iams“, f Industry Research Commit-:
“CBS. Reports” made. its |e. They took the. position; in

seasonal return to Channel 2 | F¢7eral/ that statistics. can be

 
 
 
  

mauch to be learned.
eaten nat heed” hitting The: most effective spokes-

man for the “opposition was
“controversial way,, pulling
mo punches and. sp Dr. Harry 8.. N. Greene,

_no.sacred cows, ae chairman of the Department

The first: of this fall’s doc- ' versity's Schoo! of Medicine.
Umentaries took a long, 4 down-to-earth man, who:

 

 

 

 

. at the relation between ciga- own independent mindj. Dr..
_ vette smoking and fatal dis- ‘Greene said - emphatically
ease, particularly lung can- that he “certainly did not”

cer.. Although the title, "The “believe that cigarette smok-

-‘Teen-Age Smoker,” suggested Ing caused tung cancer and

_ & Hmited area of. discussion, he went on to say thati those
the program actually ranged who did were “warriors

* over the entire fleld of ciga- against’ pleasure.” I would

 rettes and: health. uo dearly. love to think that: Dr.
Conceivably the title, and: Greene is right:

*acertain amount of emphasis

’ on the problem of smokiig by ‘Misrepresentation’
the young, was a sop to the -

: tobacco companies. who pour’ Charged by Allen
~ millions into television ad- “.

‘. . ef
poe ose ‘small sop meet of the Tobacco Institute, Inc..
ause the program as eamplained Wednesday night
whole, though it took greatfmthat his participation in. the
pains to give both sides a fairgqProgram ‘was obtained b
hearing,. left. no doubt—at fa, misrepresentation. oo
least. not in the mind of this Jn 2 telegram to CBS presi-.
Pack-a-day viewer—that the
bulk of evidence” points un-
mistakably toward a far
higher mortallty. rate. among
cigarette smokers than among
non-smokers, not. only from
lung cancer but. from heart

 
 

 
 

  

  

 
  

 

 
  

 

 

    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
 

  

program: would be an objec-
ive. repert on smoking and
ealth. Instead, it affords a
fehicle for venting of ex-
isease, - . reme opinions and prejudices
mong the telling spokes. without any real effort. to
™men for this viewpoint were explore:the facts and to de-
Dr. E. Cuyler Hammond, the termine the merits of these
American Cancer:Society'sdi- positions.” ;

‘Yector of statistical research, Mr. Allen said he had noy
~ and Dr. Michael Shimkin, been.told in advance that the
- director: of field’ studies for “brogram was tore erieniled!
-> the National Cancer Institute. to the young, beeinning
- of the United States Public: ‘smoker—yet! this is the only
.. Health Service. Even: more: subject. on which I ami:

’ - impressive was the testimony ‘quoted.” He said. the program.
of Sir: Robert Platt, who was. used only a single excerpt
President of England’s Royal from a: lengthy. interviow and .
. College of Physicians when it. it'was “badly out of context.”
-_ fssued' its famous report.of --Richard S. Galant,. presi-
JWT March stating flatly that. dent. of CBS news, replied:
the . relationship “between . “We've checked into Mr. Al-
smoking and lung cancer-ts len’s charges andi we -deny
_ Unquestionable. The facts.and thei. The prograin speaks
Geures puc forward by-these .for itself.", : :
~ Men, and several others, were

lain overwhelminc.

. Pinos oF ie speakers wha oe
.Ppposéd--them: were special -
Dleaders.-gich ag Dr. Ernest

AcDichter, described as acén-

sultant to: tobacco companies

~ Jlere and abroad. and Dr.

“Clarence. Cook. Little,. sclen-

“tifle. director of. the: Tobacco

. : { ‘£0030 44-1 §1

 
  
  
 
   

   

 

“Wednesday night.with every Misleading and there. is still

 
 
   
 

of Pathology at Yale Uni-:

- searching and: objective look. yas evidently. speaking his:

 

George V. Allen. president

 

**:, Whether you give up smoking or take it u , after view.

“ing: the hour inquiry, “CBS Reports: The Teen-Age

Smoker,” aired last: night, is.not the concern of television. «
But you can’t say that you haven’t been told all there is to

‘tell about the cigarette habit. ~ mL

-_ This report: did a good job of bringing to the front all

the questions, all the known answers and all the answers

.., that have yet to be found: by medical researchers. - oe

From teen-agers it discovered their lack of concern

ut falling victim someday to: lung cancer. Also Te-

vealed was one of the major reasons why. they start: smok-

" ing in the first place. They want to belong, they follow the

d and the crowd smokes. : : . :

S was intended, this program was enlightening, Es-
pecially when one expert stated that smoking in our mod-
ern age of tensions, has become a Torm” tranquilizer.
And those who are chronic smokers should consider that

ey have. some kind of “mild neurosis.” .
Some of the facts were frightening. Such as the“pic-
tures of lung tissue from smokers as compared with lung
tissues from non-smokers. ae . :
This was another excellent example of informing the
‘ople, done so well!last season by. “CBS Reports.’ And:
om all indications the standard of this series will be
.. Maintained throughout the coming: months. c -
4 MISTAKE . . “. Se ate
oN Marta Prgecaflats Variety Gardens” en CBS. TV wes

  

  

  
 

  

 

 
 

TIMES
Ioulsville, Kentucky
‘September 20, 1962

dn rebuttal, Dr.

 

Clarence

a Smoking - * Cook Lite, scientific director. -

of the Tobacce Research: Cen-
‘ter, maintained. that iti was not

LAREN: ce A

-eaused cancer in man,

George V. Allen, presides of
the Tobacco. Institute, called

"Show Stirs
A Protest. i: gratin ned em

New York, Sept, 20:1 — “My own Participation was

C.B.S-TV. presented both sides Obtained by misrepresentation

° . both as to purpose and'content
of the smoking-health contro of the show,” he said. “We

versy last night In an hour. were told that. the program
long program, “The Teen-Age would be an objective teyert
Smoker.” It brought « protest oo. emuking and inewlth,

“Instead i ford ici

Soi instead ill affords a vehicie

from the head of the Tobacco for venting of extreme opin.
Institute, Inc. : ions and Prejudices, without
Testimony was.presentedi by. any reul effort: to explore the

the Royal College of Physi. facts: und 2 determine the
its of these positions.. The
clans in Great Britain, the Merils of :
«8. Public Health Servier, #2OW fails te come to’ grips
and the American Cancer So. With the hasie point—that the
jiety ¢ ; si ks C2US€S Of lung cancer are sti
beter sane tas unknown and thati every effort

Should. be: directed towards
cancer, finding these causes.”

[00508 4) F/B

 

          
 
  
  

“, elearly establishe4 that tobacco

    

 

    
    
 
 
 
    
 
  
     
  
   
      
       
           
       
    
      
    
       
  

an