HTs0037085

This AP story on lung cancer, prompted by Arthur Godfrey's
operation, cites the tobacco industry's viewpoint.

DURHAM MORNING HERALD
Durham, North Carolina

May 1, 1959

Lung Cancer Grows Silently

By ALTON BLAKESLEE ten the rst waralngs. By thon, ease, ia the oe, of the Amer-

Assocluted Presa Science Wriler2|the cancer lar can Cancer .
Sclenea Wi vanced to be stopped. Excessive cigarette smoking,

NEW YORK (AP) — Arthur This year, $3000 American men] tangzy alr Industrial fumes, vil
Godirey i the latest victim of the/.nd .000-U.S, women will die of|USe2, Inherited susceptibility—all
silent viciousness of lung cancer.linng cancer, it now is the lead-jthese are blamed as causes of tha
He has a change, depending|ing causo of cancer deaths smong|trasic trend which makes lung
partly upan how early his disease|American men, end it is increas-/cancer now the killer of almost
was caught and how thoroughlyjing among women. ong of every seven Americans who
surgery banished it. Lung cancer is Killing elghtjdie of any form of cancer.
Lung cancer typically starts and|times as mary Americans a3 it} Recent studies increasingly
grows silently and hidden with noldid only 2 yeara ago. Simillar|Indict smokig as a main cause.
sign or symptom, no discomfort./eminous increases are occurring) Tae American Cancer Society
ere Hy nothing to be seen, Uke|la other countries. curse of{smoting is ena priipal cause,
cancer on the skin; n to cancer bears tha curse
felt, like a lump im the breast. {showing the most rapid rise ever] The tobacco industry insists, hows

Vbronic cough and pain are of-‘reported for a nonlofectious dla-{over, 2 definite link has not bee

Godfrey for years smoked cig-
aeties, but he gave them: up four
years ago, A friend sald he had
found he was allergic to inhale.
since exdlad‘tly pipes and

ce Pp .
gars but without a te

But millions of other persona
who smoke have not daveloped!
lung cancer, Some sclentists
thls and other evidence to
that clgarettes ate a cause.

Others say the fact that many
smokera  eSCca| lung cancer
does not invalidate the statistics]
evidence that smoking contributes
heavily to the chances of getting
lung cancer.

Surgery is tha main weapon
against lung cancer, X-rays semte
times help control the disease.

So far no druga have he’
against Jung cancer.