Anthony J. Celebrezze, Secretary of Health, Education and wer le 098 31 96
Washington newsmen that he didn't intend to give up smoking because of
the cancer scare. He said he didn't think government should tell the

individual to stop smoking.

THe NEW YORK TIMES
New York, New York
December 3, 1962

“both sides"—the tobacco In- smoking. Some wanted

dustry and the vol health
(RLEBRRZZR WARY SSS SE pat tn Tt
Moreover, none If Mr. Celebresze's view d0e3

ON SMOKING ISSUB Swazi 7 ens oat ite at a

Government has mapped jeast it puts an influential of-

 

a éwo-part PI to consider fictat on record against strong

Would Not Bid Government the problem. The first will getion by the Government.
ve a Preview of medi studies The scientific advisory com-
Tell People to Stop = on smoking and health by the mittee, under Surgeon General
also examine “ Ne cantri. Luther £4 Terry, met Nov. ©
By BOREBTO.TOTR Its activi-

such . and 10 to
Spee) to ‘The New York Tunes aoe factors. & exposure, Fin. ties. Hach member was given
WASHINGTON, | Dec. 2— halation of chemicals, for ex- Specific areas to study.

Even if smoking is found harm: ample], radiation and alcohol.” _ Besides looking at lung can-

ful by 8 scientific committee he panel's report is ted cer and heart disease, the panel

now reviewing the evidence, the in the spring or summer, It will will consider possible links be-

Government should not tell be limited to the scientists’ con- (ween smo and tis
e to give up cigarettes, ac clusions on the “nature and Ulcers, bladder cancer an em:

of magnitude” of the hazard. physema (lung congestion),
Healthy Bdueation amd W The second part of the pro. *Pokesman reported.
gram, to be undertaken only

Government to get aa expat taruate’ “estimmendetions :

The findings shoulé be laid Ago
before the publilc for it to de When the Gonomrent sald
cide what ‘action to take, he inst June it would examine the
added in an Interview. controveray, indications were

‘i firmly believe that It §5 it was the foundation

tive a

not the proper rote of the Fed- for
eral Government to tell citizens years ago the Sur
General, then Dr. Leroy

to st emclnde, be decianet: eo, oemeres neral, | ara
ey, ie Government's

conclude, he declared:
tlon was that the evidence

“me Recretary. whose rte
bilities ude the Publle implicated smoking 98 as “the
[causa-

ealth Service and its National prin; etlological
Institutes of Health, the Food tivo] tor in the increased in-
Administration eidence of lung cancer.”

and the
and other h tion still stands, and

th cles, said
he had 8 “realistic” attitude few scieatists contend that any.
new evidence will reverse It.

“You can kill Yourself by move this year
overeating. ee king and
other overindulgences.” he said,
“Prohibition did not work. And Phystelans in Britain, It sald
we don't prevent the sale of rat that Reavy amokers ran 30
poison, although it can kill times more 6 risk of
humans.” lung

Mr. Celebrezze smokes about times more of heart disease
a package of cigarettes a day. than nonsmokers.

el of ten scientists was After the

set up ip by the Public Health were made in this coun’

Service Oct. 27, after a d by en, for a Govern:
in choos! gre members Ti ment ucation capaign to in:

ecep! orm = citizens, — particularly
expen one 8 He to young people, of the danger of

STAR
Tucson, Arizona
December 3, 19.2

Smoking Left
To Public By
Health Chief

@ 192 New York Times News 5°.

WASHINGTON, Dec. 2 —
Even if is found to
be harm y a scientific
committee now reviewing the
evidence, the rmment
should not tell citizens to give
up cigarettes, according 'o
the secretary of health, educa-
tion and welfare.

Anthony J. Celebrezze, who
took over the job four months
ago, said it was “proper for
the government to get an ex-
pore committee to determine
f it’s true or not” that smok-

is a health hazard.
findings should then
be laid before the public for
individuals to decide what
action to take, Celebrezze
said in an interview,

“I firmly believe that it
is not the proper role of the
federal government to tell
citizens BO at stop smoking"
whatever the scientists Ce
clude, he sald.
respondibiitie meiude the

ea fe
‘Public Health Service and its

National Institutes of Health,
the Food and Drug Adminis-

tration and other mment
health agencies, said he takes
4 “realistic” attitude toward
the subject.

So oa ting. v kill yourself by
overeating, inking, an and
other overindulgen

ulgences,
said. “Prohibition did 1 not
work. And we don’t
though

the sale of rat poison
it can kill humans.”

The secretary smokes one
package or less of cigarettes