C

These localized stories were distributed to: various. newspapers by. a private

news service.

Martinsville, Indiana
November 21, 1961

Y5p/

Relatively unpolluted air may give
county favorable lung cancer rate

Just. how: much of a problem:

lung cancer is in Morgan County,
compared to what it is in other

- areas, is brought outi in a new

report by. the U. §. Public Health
Service.

The report sppears at a time
when considerable attention is
being given: to the possibility. that
air pollution: is the. cause of much
of the lung. cancer that has been

lung. cancer. Meanwhile, munici-
palities in many: parts of the coun
try have passedi ordinances seek:
ing to reduce the amount. ofi air
pollutian.

Not: that cigarette smoking has
been given any. clean bill of health.
The national Cancer Institute

maintains thati the besti insurance. +

lagainst. getting: the disease: is: to
retrain from: smoking:.

charged against cigarette eryouing. | It points out that the: ailment

According to. the official find-
ings, there were 35: deaths from
cancer ofall types among residents
of Morgan: County in the year end-
ing January, 1960.

Of the 35, however, lung can-
cer was responsible for only 3, or:
8.6 per cent. of the total.

Generally; thraughout the United
States, lung cancer amounted to
14.4 per cent of the overall. can-
cer mortality;. and, in the State
of Indiana, to 13.7 per cent..

Whether or not. cigarette smok-
ing is a major or minor cause
of lung cancer, there is evidence
that! points: to air pollution as a
lung irritant) and an important
malefactor.

Air Pollution

Benzyprene, which is also found!
in cigarette smoke, is an airborne
pollutant. that is under. suspicion.
It comes from the smokestacks: ofi
factories:and homes and from the
exhausts of automobiles.

Research: studies are under way
to. determine whether: there is a
cause and effect relationship be-
tween such industriali smog and

has. become the leading cause oi
cancer death: among men. The
number of male deaths attributed
‘to it has multiplied six times in
the past 20 years.

The current report. shows that
Morgan: County now: has. a lung
concer mortality’ rate of 8.9 per
100,000. population.

 

This. compares with a: rate of

209 per 190000. for the United
States as a whole. In the State

of Indiana, the average is 19/6 per
100,000:

Ve
0
NEWS -LEADER O39

Springfield, Missourl'
November 19, 1941

“5 fr ¥

County Records an Increase

In Lung Cancer Death Toll

NEW. YORK: ‘Special’ — A 62! Vehomently. opposing these cone
nercsut increase: in. Hing. cancer| clusions are other medical authors-
mortality. in the: United’ S tates ties and spokesmen for the tobac~
ina period of three. years; co industry,

; attenlion-to the situation'in} Dr, Joseph Berkson afithe Mayo.
e County, Mo. Clinic, Rochester, Minn., states

Mung with: the national. pielure, | that he doubts that smoking is
there was an increase in the pe: | the culprit, He contends thati sucli:
vidxt. Tt amounted to 14.8 percent |“‘proot” as has. been offered is
in the county. Throughout. the|merely statistical and. that clini-
State: ofi Missouri, Unere was a al evidence indicates: quite tihe,
uixe of 19.5 percent... ‘opposite. |

‘The facts: andi figures are. con- see
toinediin the latest annual report} Some researchers look upon: air:
ui the Public Health Service. cov-{ pollution as a major cause of Jung
ering all counties. in’ the Uniled!' cancer. They believe that the. ex-
Slites ‘haust gasesiftom automobiles ane

it. shows that almost. every; the fumes from chimney; al$.un
sreaiof:the country ‘contnibuled to important: factor. As:a result, in
the imerease in .ang cancer. many, cities actoss the country,

~*~ e * steps are being taken to eradicate

Exactly what causes: the disease} or control these conditions.

wi
ar
add

  
  
  

continues to be an.epen question
und the subject of bitter argu-
menti Doctors at the Sloan-Ketter-
ing Institute for Cancer. Research,
New York, maintain: that. the in+

| Greene County, according to the
Public Health Service, nadian ov-
erall cancer toll:of 202 in the year
ending January; 1960. .
Qf this total. the aumber: at-

crease ‘closely’ parallels. the rise | tributed to lung cancer was AL, oF

‘in cigarette consumption.”

They. refer to: 30 studies that:

!13:3 pereent.

supply statistical ev idence, so they., cancer toll nationally amounted te

claim.

By way of comparison, the Jung

“that! the more a person: 14.4 percent of all: cancer deaths.

smokes the greaicr is his risk of| (In the State of Missouri,. it came}|

developing

HERALD STATESMAN
Yonkers, New. York
November 16,. 1961

IN 3 YEARS
Lung Cancer Deaths

Rise 12% In Yonkers

A 16.2:percent increase in lung| Exactly what causes the disease
cancer mortality. in the United! wontinues to bi: i

. a 1e e an open question

States. withia a period of three i and the subject of er arp

years, draws attention te the sit-{ ment, Doctors. ati the Sloan-Ket-

uation in Yonkers. . tering Institute for Cancer’ Re

Locally, along with the nation-i search, New. York,, maintain that

al picture, there was an increase 'the increase ‘closely parallels the
in the period..It amounted to 12.5) rise in cigarette consumption.”

ercent:, Throughout the State of :
New York, there was a rise or They refer to 30 studies that
5.6 percent. supply Statistical evidence, 50

The facts andi figures are con-| ‘ey claim, “'that the more a per-
tained in the latest. annual report | S07 Smokes the greater is his risk
of the Public Health Service. cov- | of developing cancer. of the lung.’”
ering: all counties ih, the United: Vehemently. opposing these: con-
States. |clusions are other medical auth-

It shows that almost every-areaioTities and spokesmen for the to
of the country contributed to the bacco industry. ‘
increase in lung cancer. Dr. Joseph Berkson of the Mayo

 

cancer of the lung.”

 

‘to 15.2 percent.

Clinic, Rochester, Minn., states
that he doubts that! smoking. is.
the culprit. He contends that: such
“proof as has: been offered is
merely statistical and the clinical
evidence indicates. quite the op-
posite. :

Some researchers’ look upon air
pollution as a major cause: of
lung cancer. They believe that the
exhausti gases from: automobiles
and the fumes from chimneys
are an: important factor. As a
resuil, in. many. cities: across the
country, steps are being taken to.
eradicate or control: these condi-
tions.

Yonkers,. according to the Pub
lic Health Service, had an over-
all cancer toll of 339 in the year
ending: January, 1960:

Of this total, the number attri-

jbuted to lung cancer was 54 or
‘15.9 percent.

By way of:comparison, the lung
cancer: toll nationally amounted to
14.4 percent: of all cancer deaths.
In the. State of New York, it came
to:14.9 percent.

@FSSPPOEOOL