Sages on gore” Regrw hes lanad tha ded ogee
(her far yoo" Than Rie  ecparsed (rte Lean, trace
Gee ew) sare crperreced walter of cipwren Ehera
Ws he only Shes words ietrem ap wabDegrat Aare
fea’ bea Lanqeen eczema! The ool wus ts eeu Pes

FIUTEREG SMOEE...eat ONFNITRID FLAveR!

Bere’s the cme teqnerte thet gv you enconem. fier
provers, su plies pears mer? yunr neahe! ADGA
hers thar = r0ery ba ta coy pull Nankag bet the
rms to Ohreed. Mme and conyeiney ove rompirwiy
oalmpneed. Cal Degen grits pon bach of. chews big
abamagn becoww enh the inpered Reges Eke is
hath eaiiarm Ob bragth ood preert we dresfty. Talsy,
Gavore ths prvder: Goel unokiog of Seqras!t

Cigarere » far Chany whe panier 0 MOM. oo
Aaved wennibe. Oral. King Star Rarguess oxen is
‘tha eortanter erahgrced bow,

Par f? fran “a

America's Firat and Finest King Size Cigarette!

$< ——————

DISCOVERED

after a World-Wide Search

the IMPORTED FILTER
that does justice to the incomparable flavor

of REGENT cigaretis!

 

PRINTERS! INK

July 9, 1954

  

 

The filters come out fighting

® New filters coming
® Clamor of claims here

Filter cigarettes ed toward
“yet te eect, fal

their biggest fight yet
lowing the latest smoking cancer scare.
Taking more of the total market all
the time, filter smokes Agure to climb
even faster, observers believe, now that
smokers are back to fidgeting about
their health. Meanwhile, filter folks are
turning loose a clamor of claims in
current promotion. Riggio Tobacco,
which the king-size Regent, came
out with a filter-tip Regent last week
and claims it is the “only one to give
you filtered smoke but unfiltered flavor.”
Da Maurier, a recent filter entry, is
Full paging this appeal: “Start today to
smoke with greater peace of mind...
with the world’s most efficient filter.”
P. Lorillard’s Kent, now also king-size,
says its filter “takes out more nicotine
and tars than any other filter cigarette.”
Liggett & Myers continues to thunder
claims for its L&M Filter and repor.s
sales are soaring. Brown & William.
son is on a rampage of TV spots for
its Viceroy; other filters are shrilling
thaw safeguards to uncisy smokers.
Ant American ‘lohaees. onl major

company without a filter offering, al-
most certanly will have one soon.

None of this advertising, except
Regent's, broke after release of Amer-
{ean Cancer Society’s study on effects
of smoking. But filter makers won't be
long in ig & cue from the study,
judging from du Maurier’s repeated
advice on how to smoke “with greater
peace of mind.” Impact of ACS’ study,
too, will put an edge on competition
between filters. Already Kent, which
has steadily insisted its micronite filter
is the best of any major brand, is un-
derstood to be bristling wver du Maurier
claim to the “most efficient Blter.”

Meanwhile, the cigarette clan as a
whole is making no public predictions
on the effect of the ACS report. But
last week the Tobacco Industry Re
search Committee named Timothy V.
Hartnett as full-time chairman. 0.
Parker McComas, president, Philip
| Morris & Co., has been 'TIRC chrirman
for the past S months. Mr, Hartnett
retired as president of Brown & Wil
liamson Tehacen to head TIRC. One
of B&W’s line is the Viceroy filter,
whose advertising shelved its heavy
accent on health a while ago ond now
talks of filter officiency.

Tn taking the post, Mr. Hortuett
noted that there is still no “conchisive

START TODAY TO SMOKE WITH
GREATER PEACE OF MIND...

START TO SMOKE du MAURIER

THE GREAT NEW CIGARETTE
WITH THE WORLD'S

MOST EFFICIENT FILTER

WO OTUIN PILTER.TIP OF ANY COMPORTTION GA maTEMAL. AE
RAED OT 48 BUCH ICOTIXE AND TANS AKD ay Tce nan AAO
‘TURE LETS TOU DAVEW THE SMONE 80 RARITY. BO COMFORTABLY

SSSSSSs tae du MA

 
   
     
 
      
   

 
  

  

meeseey By

Oo ideale

        
     
   
 

  

proof of a link between smoking and
cancer” and said “the millions of le

who derive pleasure and satisfaction

from smoking «an be reassured that
every scientific means will be used to
get all the facts os soon as possible.”
Along with getting these facts, an im-
mediate problem for the industry and
Mr. Hartnett will be to determine the
tone of future cigarette advertising,
After the widespread use of alarming
medical copy a short time ago, many in
the industry have returned to talking
soothingly of the pleasure in smoking,
of quality, etc. Question now seems to
be: Will they stick to it in the face of
the current cancer threat?

Standard Oi! plans
case-history campaign

A customerwritten advertising cam-
paign is to run for Standard Oil Co.
(Iind.).

Newspapers, radio and point-of-sale
displays tell in the customers’ own
words how the company's new Super
Permalube Oi] saves on gasoline.

The case history messages will ap-
pear 3 times weekly in 125 dally news-
papers; and 32 radio stations in 20
Midwest cities will broadcast custam-
ers’ experience.

In Angast the campaign will iuelnde
some 1.800 antoor posters,

HTHO0402C0