WALL STREET JOURNAL, . JOURNAL AMERICAN
New York, New York. 7

: oo, New York, New York: oe
- April 10, 1962 ee ‘April 8, 1962 os

British Budget _ one - - | | | ~ British Taxes:

© Calls for Some - ey 53%Lbl a ToHlif Tobacco,
‘Tax Reductions. ADVERTISING AGE
‘Capital Gains

May 28, 1962
LONDON, April 7 (AP).—

But Macmillan Plans to Make Britain May Ban
2 Kinds of Capital Gains . | “Treasury Chief Selwyn Lloyd
“Subject to the Income Tax TV Cigaret Ads = reyavnet wool fete tor

_ erty and stock market specu-

    

  

 

 

 

; R; S . ht Lonpon, May: 23 Cigaret ad- lators: with a new. capital gains
Di RS vertising soon may. be: banned en- tax. —
Outp ut, Export MISE ous tirely on British television. . Forecasters suggested the
ReginaldiBevins, postmaster gen- Chancellor. of the Exchequer's :
By 'a Watt. STREET JocRNAL Steff Reporter : eral| told Parliament last. night annual accounting,. to be: pre- Sot a
LONDON—The Macmillan Conservative that' the Independent Television gented to Commons Monday. and
government, in the annual budget. presented Authority. was discussing the whole: may also Holst the already high mos
by Selwyn Lloyd,, chancellor of the exchequer. matter, including the type and style: tax on. tobacco.
somewhat rediiced taxes on investment inconie of cigaret advertising, with. its ad- This would: be a way of
. ae poeple, ‘ani estat) is ardion sale of vertising advisory committee. - Checking: the nation’s smoking
v eo 44 ou wa ow Mind of ~ Mr. Bevins said, the committee habits. The government, jolted
Me . ¥ “may. recommend a. complete: ban. by rising lung. cancer figures,
mio ee. will odt the taxa. ab. If they do, that advice: would be - fs campaigning against heavy
mobiles: and many Abusehold appliances. mandatory on the authority.” | smokers. .
‘igaret Tax n Cigareti advertising expenditures Generally, the state of Brit-
ee ee -on tv. currently’ amount to about ™ ain's: economy: makes it pretty
. Cloyd specifically refused’ to step up: $17,000,000. # . . sure: Mr. Lloyd will. stick to
the tax on tobacco and cigarets. Cigarets. cur- _ his old philosophy of: fighting,
rently cost 63 cents a. pack. The chancellor for wage and. profit: restraint,.
had been widely expected to. increase: the to-. higher’ output, more: exports.
bacco tax in: the: wake of’ a recent’ medical Anything. savoring. of: inflation
report declaring once: again that smoking _ or an easy money policy: would
causes cancer. Instead, Mr. Lloyd said: : undercut his own set of com-
“A further. penal! increase would mean: that .

mandments: ° oe
smoking, even in moderation, would be taken Nonetheless; Britain's mid- cae
quite: out of the reach of many. peopie: of. limit- : dle-class taxpayers would not
ed means. I an: not: prepared to do that.” ‘ be surprised. if the Chancellor
The tanirg of capital gatas wouitin't appr _were to grant them a conces-
tis thee wae unt F. sion or two.

The middle: classes have been
chilling Prime Minister Mac-
millan and his Conservatives
Jately with their voting per- |
formances ih. by-elections: A.
distinct: swing. from the Tories
has: becomes evident,

But any real'cut available al-
most certainly will have to be
kept for 1983, when a. general

- election. will be. around the
“corner, ~

5

_g TI9ZESCOOT