- MATE page 61

Hagerstown, Md.
February 14, 1964

: [W0515 248
3 School Board To Join In
~~ Anti-Smoking Drive Here;

Other Plans Are Approved

Tobacco facts for elementary building, adoption of metal con-
students, standards for future struction for all doors and
school construction, insurance/fra aluminum windows

INTELLIGENCER.

Wheeling, West Virginia
February 11, 1964

Schools to Aid
Drive Against.

 

rates, and enroliment gains atlwhen ever possible, and joining
Williamsport were among thelexterior walkways against ad-
topics studied by the Washington! jacent buildings to simplify
County Board of Education groundskeeping problems.
Thursday. The report said the commis-
The board approved the ap-|sion “is interested in seeing that
pointment of a staif member af(schools are constructed: of dur-
the Board of Education to thejable quality and as mainten-
Washington County Committee|ance free as is economically. fe-
on Smoking Education. asibie; that where items of con-
Dr. Victor B. Burt, who hasiStruction material and equip-
been spearheading formation of|™ent are to be compared, cred-
this committee, told the schoolj{t shall be allowed: for service
authorities that the committee|20d durability as well as its
already has won cooperation|€conomy. of first cost; and, in
from the Cancer Society, Health|4 final sense, it is: the hope. of
Department. Heart Association,|this commission that all of the
Medical Society, Mmuisterial As-{MOney spent in construction of
sociation, PTA Council, and Tu-j!earning facilities will be done
bereulosis Association in this|With the ultimate well-being of
area. the student usec asa Buide.
. . Warren ann, a loca
Dr. Burt said he feels that insurance agent, appeared be-
elucaane ponte abe ae hentin fore the board! with a suggestion

i — es to reconsider its insurance pol-
ds of smoking is in ele icies in the light of recently.
mentary grates.

marketed package type policies.

 
 

 

and liability insurance at a low-
a file of literature on smoking.jer rate than is paid now for fire
providing a source of medicaljinsurance alone.

opinions on newly released ma-: School officials instructed him
terial aa the topic, obtaining alto provide specific figures, after
county ordinance to require aiwhich a study will be made on
sign on each cigarette vendingi whether it is advisable to make
machine pointing to the health ‘changes.

hazard invewed, publicizing the Dr. William M. Brish, super-
anti-smoking drive in general,lintendent of schools, told a Wil-
and working with a smoking! {iamsport delegation that school
withdrawal clinic that the Sev-|construction for that area has
enth Day Adventist congregation}been moved up from the fourth

will sponsor. . . . {Stage to the second stage in the
“The basic issue involved is current nine million dollar build-

 

the serious health hazard assoc- ing program. The change has:

iated with smoking, particular-/been made because of rapidly
ly heavy as preieaged cigar- anecreasing enrollment in the
cette smoking,” be said. town’s. schools,

The Washington County Schoolj Mayor James E. Byron, L. P.
Building Commission submittediCastle, and Maynard L. Patter.
general recommendations for{son discussed with the Board of
study by the board as a guidejEducation their recent meeting
to future schools. Claude Merck-| with the Board of County Com-
le of the Board of Education pre-/missioners at which possible
sented the report for the com-lconstruction sites were review-
mission. _ fed. :

He said that toe commission! Mayor Byron told the educat-
feels that strongly built schools|ion officials that 35 children will
that can be maintained at low|be in kindergarten in Williams-
cost are important considerat-|port next September and that
ions,.in addition to. economy injfirst grade enrollment then will
construction costs. be sumewhere between 100 and

The commission: recommend-!130; The: high school! will grad:
ed a number of construction de ,
tails aimed at. saving expenses,

a reduction of the amount of
glass in walls, testing carpeting
in some area of a, new school

Pupil Smoking

Ohio County intends to coop-
erate fully in a program an-
nounced jointly by the West Vir.
ginia Departments. of Health
and Education to combat smok-
ing among school pupils.

Superintendent Harry Wil.
fong of the Ohio County Public
Schools said the county was
“going to cooperate” in the pro-
gram outlined by State Health

- Director N. H. Dyer.

Dyer’s report, endorsed and-

recommended by State Superin-
tendent of Schools Rex. M.
Smith, contained eight provi-
sions which each county health
department was urged to imple.
ment immediately,

’ They were: .

1. Make available to school
personnel! the. latest health in:
formation and assist. them in.
securing the best teaching aids.

2. Utilize the tested education
Principles of participation.

3. Enlist the aid of voluntary
health agencies.

4. Help schools in the prepa.

. Tation of resources units, short.
term projects and in-service ed-
ucation for teachers.. .

5. Lend a hand in interpreting

the school health program to
the. community.

6. Involve parents in the pro.
gram.

 

 

7. Don't rely on scare cam-
paigns. :

8. If necessary, accept an al- |

ternative.

a
Be

Dr. Dyer, in: his report, cites we

three alternatives in the cam-*—
paign against. smoking: Educa- o

tion against’ acquiring the. hab-

it; education and‘ support in giv- -

ing up smoking if. the habit is
already acquired, and education.
toward less dangerpus forms of
tobacco usage and against inha-
lation of smoke. in
cases, .

the tougher -

Wilfong said he hoped the pro- .

gram would be included in all
the county schools. “The soon. ~~
er it’s started, the. more effec. ..

tive. it. will: be,” he said. :

He explained that he thought
the younger pupils are more
susceptible to a concerted edu-

cational program against smok- .-

ing and expressed the opinion

tee

that. the. “First Grade is not

too soon” to start.

Y SPZTSTSOOT