C

C

T6LOSIS00T

WORLD-TELEGRAM AND SUN

New York, New York
December 14, 1964

4Sohns Hopkins Develops
_ Lung Cancer Test

By EDWARD EDELSON
O} thr World-Telegram Stayt

A quick and easy way of di-
agnosing a number of diseases,
including some cases of unde
tected Jung cancer, has bean
develaped at the Johns Hop-
kins University School of Med-
{elne in Baltimore.

The test can be performed
In a few minutes by @ techni:
dan using equipment that
costs only $150. He simply
runs a small metal wheel over
prescribed areas of the pay
ilent's skin.

The wheel is an electrode,
attached to two small batter.
Jes. Another electrode is at-
tached to the patient’s leg. A

meter records the resistance
encountered by the flow of
current, and the technician
maps the pattern on a draw-
ing of the human body.

“Almost everything that hap-
pens in the body Is referred to
the skin,” said Dr. Curt P.
Richter, who has been work
ing on the technique for 20
years. ‘A number of changes
in internal organs can be de
tected this way. It is particu.
larly useful in some vascular
diseases (diseases of the circu-
latory system}."

What the technician records
is the resistance of the skin
alone to the electrie current.

Page 33

The body's sympathetic ner-ture of the damage. Over the
vous system, which regulatrs’\ears, Richter and a cowork:
the skin's response to st.muh.Jor, Dr. James F, Fries, have
also cantrols the skin's resist rtevmined the patterns fitting
the current. many diseayes. - _
at ° sympathetic nerve is! In lung cancer, for exant
damaged, compressed or cut,jple, there are four different re
skin resistance rises. Thejsistance ptticrns. each reflect
amount of the increase and its}ing the loration of a cancer
: ‘
nature offer clues to the najand its colonies.

WALL STREET JOURNAL
New York, New York
December 7, 1964

w Data on Cigaret Smoking Confirm
indings of Triple Risk of Heart Attacks

 

Aya Warr Staver JOUMNAL Staff Reporter Data for Surgeon General
s r
NEW YORK. New data from theo impor- ‘It is obvious that cigaret smokers ale at
- i ers,
tant studies confirmed earlier findings thas Tate Much higher than none garet amok s)
men who smoke 20 or more cigarets a day With much of the excess rate al ou
have about three times a greater risk of @ Myocardial infarction (heart attack),’’ the scl-

entiats xaid.
heart attack than nonamoker's, former smok- The first reports from Framingham and Al-

ers and pipe and cigar users. Dany constituted important evidence that was
Physicians stressed, however, that the MAM ronsidered by the Surgeon General's Advisory

ner in which cigaret smoking tmpairs longevi-a mittee on Smoking and Health. The Suc-

ty temasns unexplained, : . geon General’s panel found a “significant re-
“The heaviest cigaret smokers experience fationship” between cigaret smoking, incidence

a hazard three times that of Tongmokers.” ré-of heart. attacks and sudden death, especially

starchers trom the Albany, N.Y. Medical Col-in middle-aged men.

lege, the National Heart Institute and the Pub- “The second study particularly investigated

He Health Service reported in the current Jour-2,084 men in the combined Albany-Framing-

nal of the American Medical Association. “¥or-ham group originally between 40 and 49 years

mer ciaret and pipe and cigar smokers are atold and free of disease when the triala began.

about the same msk as nonamokers.”’ Investigators found = heart attack rata of 2.8
The new data was contained In « second re-.

par? on continuing studies that have bean un-

aertaken at Framingham, Muss., and Albany.

Mhystcfana studied 2.282 men In Framingham

fur 10 years and 1,838 men for & years in Al-

hany, They said the relationship between the

tohacco habit and coronary heart disease in

‘he twa groups of middle-aged men was ‘‘vir-

tually identical” with results reported three

rears ago,

per thousand among nonsmokers and 9 per
thousand for cigaret users, Examining the
death rate for the two groups, the medical
researchers found the rate for nonsmokers at

2 per thousand and for smokers at 6.3 per
thousand. ,

Physicians found that the risk of death
from all causes, from heart disease and the
development of heart attacks is “consistently
higher” tn cigaret smokers than in nronsmok-
ers, regardiess of whether the subjects are
above or below the median for blood pressure,
cholesterol or both. Cholesterol is a tatty sub-
stance in the blood. Some doctors believe x
bulldup of such fats leads to heart disease,

Analysis o& Those Who Quit ,

“In general, the risk for smokers is always
greater, and in almost every instance at least
twice as grent as that for nonsmokers,’" the
reasarchers reported.

Unlike some earlier researchers, the AJ.
bany and Framingham aclentists found that
stopping smoking lowers risk to virtually that
of & person who never smoked at al. Other
investigators in different teats have reported
that the health risk for Persons who did smoke
but have quit is intermediate between cons
Unuing smokers and those who never smoked,

“Tha Inference that stopping cigaret smok.
Ing has @ beneficial effect in preventing or de.
laying the onset of the lethal manifestautona
of coronary heart disease appears warranted,’
the Framingham end Albany doctors said,

The Framingham atudy was established in
1949 by the U.S. Public Health Service and the
Albany experiment by the New York State De.
Partment of Health in 1952. Each subject re
celved a complete physical examination, chest
Xray, electrocardiogram and other laboratory
tests before his part fn the sonunuing investi.
gation began.

\T6Z0STSOOT