ASSOCIATED PRESS
AAA WIRE

{caS

tar
On

MAR

“Smokers Find Ally in Maryland Legislature

“By TOM STUCKEY=

“Associated Press Writer=
ANNAPOLIS, Md. (AP) _ After years of watching their right to light

up slowly whittled away, smokers are abcut to get some relief from
the Maryland General Assembly. .
The legislature is nearing enactment of a bill that would make it
illegal for employers to refuse to hire somecne because that person
is a smoker. Both the House and Senate are on record as supporting
the measure, making it likely a bill will be sent to the governor
before the legislature adjourns April ia.
Gov. William Donald Schaefer has not taken a position on the issue.
Bruce C. Bereano, lobbyist for The Tobacco Institute, said he knows
of no other state that has a Similar law, although the Viroinia
legislature voted this year ta prohibit discrimination by state and
local governments against smokers.
Identical bills intreduced in the Maryland House and Senate go much
further than the Virginia law, covering all private employers as well
as public agencies. An employer could not refuse to hire or oroemete a
worker or fire him simply because that employee smokes when he is not

at work.
Sponsers of the twa

rights, not smakings,
employers have a righ

smeking.
“*7T just see this as a right that people have to perform legal acts

in their homes as long as it doesn’t jeopardize their job

‘) Delegate George W. Owings ILI said Friday.

as prompted in part by a pelicy adapted a
County fire and rescue services. The
county makes new employees sion an

4 smoke on or off duty as long as they

bills say they deal with freedom and individual

dismissing the arguments of opponents whe say
t to try to reduce the costs associated with

performance,
The Maryland legislation w
year ago by the Mont gomery
suburban Washington, D.C.,
agreement that they will ne
work for the department.
Owings, whese district is in the ta
Maryland, said he wonders what will come next

away with telling people they can’t smcke.
‘Will they tell you that you can’t watch Channel 97 You car enby |

watch Charmnel i1 between the hours of 12 ard seven? You can’t read

The Haltimore Sun’?
‘*‘What are they going to take away next???
“TF you want ta take it to the extremes. an enplayer,
“If you want ta work here, you have to Ssmake,

bacce growing region of sauthern
if employers can get

Qwinas asked.
say a tabacce
37

company, cauld say,

he said.
Ger. Aibert Wynn, sponsor of the Senate version of the bill, said he

has seen newspapers ads offering yobs only for non-smokers, shawimg
that the Montgomery Courty agency is not the only employer te
penalize smokers.

’*This is discrimination,

Wyrm said.

Dooernents of tne bill argue
that emoloayers have a legitimate interest
smoke because smokers have more health oraplems,

health insurance casts.
Wynn said if emolayers car discriminate against smokers om tne oasis

of higher costs, they can move on from there ta discriminate against
overweight pecole and pecolie with high bleoad pressure.

and it ought te be a prohibited act,’’

d in committee avd during Floor debate
ivr, whether their emolcyees
resulting, in nigher

AP -NY-@3-26-89 Z249E5T

a
©}
=
C1
Oo
wv
bem
J
GQ
ee