wage

  
 

  

Smokeless
cigarette
could be
a hot item

 

 
 

 

 
   
   

 

 
  

In (978, when Gerry Mazur heard
that his collegue, Phil Ray, was work:
ing on a “stinket@ss cigarette,“ he’
{how Ray mus have surely gone olf

 
           
  

 
 

Excellent timing

Mazur and Ray, who are chairman
and president of ATP, respectively, now
are preparing to enter their smokeless
Cigarette onto the market this fall, and
Mazur said the ming of the introduce:
Uon could not have worked out better,

  
     
  

  
  
   

  
  
 

ieee - ™ "Phete by SCUTT SINES
ADVANCED TOBACCO PRODUCTS’ GERRY MAZUR AT THE COMPANY PLANT ||. :
ee ‘what we've hed to de is apply high-tech:to an gnitent industry’ ue

      
 

The growing consciousness of “pas- pt a tes

sive smoking,” of the inhalation of ciga- He has stressed since the beginning — tion is unlimited,” Mazur said, volved in the tests 1s almost Limutiess.

retle smoke by non-smokers, led that if Favor gets only 1 percent of the “We can the. U.S. market from’ Once the te is done, the ciga+ et
with legislauon in California banning cigarette market it wil be a sucreas this one aite.” tettes first will be Uistributed in Austin

  
  

smoking in state facilities, translates “What we've had to do is a high Mazur used his former company, Dar. Mazur said the Cgarettes are being in.
into a growing market for the new tech to an ancient intuscry Mees apoint, 1a a point of “At its ~woduced in Austin-becayen Ite oboe
product, which will be named Favor, sald, “We had to start trom ground axro | peak, Datapoint had 9,000 employees: cal teat market even though, he does nok
Favor resembles a conventional cig- with some of this ” , ' abd revenues of $600 million,” he said, ‘perceive.the introduction ‘a’ a lest but
arette but is essentially cotton-treated Much of the equipment that makes “If we got lems than 3 percent of our tather the first step in laywig the
with @ minute amount of nicotine in so up ATP’s production lines is Market, we could have identical reve. SToundwork for a distribution network. |
lution and then packaged like a cigae machinery that has been to with 258 employees: this is neither Marketin: teat po 8
Tetle, The user vaporizes the nicotine turn out Favor. The machine that in pital. por a labor-intensive busi. | fing strategy, ow |
when drawing on a Favor and the the cigarettes with the nicotine ao- : ot < The marketing stratezy isto gotrom {
user’s craving for nicotine is 1

       
     
         
    
 

é

 

-
8

   

  
   
   

    
    

 
 
 

timated $108 bi cigarette market. In addition to production-line in Westchester Coun , New York. Peo. - Mazur has traveled to Eutope and
“Last ear was the 100th anniversary ment, computers are evident ke the lab: ty ° ; ves

of the fitvt machine-rolled cigarette, oratory where testing is under way, i i
he ex) “And since that time, not Soon, eight production Unes wil! be out the most variety. The ciga: Sweden, Norway and Denmark, He ls

a whole lot has changed in the industry; turning out 200 ‘millios of Favors rettes will be sold in three forms, regu. adamant about the fact that no interna. .
(they are still basically cutting tobacco r year, and that will be on

; frome "fee Ut
\avew up and rolling them in paper.” 240 days per year, “Our produce ons “of flavors and ingredients in.‘ $eeSMOKE Page Vteh i

       
          
 

E
§
g
g
2
g

 
 
 

  

&
cS
rs
=
wD
on
a