oO 7. O7. 89

10°: 36AM *CONGRESSMAN LUEKEN

Tobacco Companies Tin Up Heat
On Firms Pushing Smoking Bans

that hee announved it wal ban smoking on ad
domestic flights beginning Apri 23: the
wme day a new federa) iw. will prokibne
srinking on U.S: fights fens then.twe hours
in duration. [nh prema peecees, newsletters
und Western Union letters agnl toa long hist:

 

By Steve Coll

Sra ene Pet vtalt Srner

hte enaii
- NEW YORK, April 6—Fuming over:
smoking bans snd wielding: new financial
clout, big tobacto companies are moving to:
punish Gusinesees that publicly. support.
smoking prohibitions.
Though: eggressive: direct: mail cam:

 

“If we're attacked; we're

igre, multimilliondéltar pubiiehing! peor | :
rum and were uw of wane ber. not going to roll over
Gott (ae: adi 8 7 wae: ”
tha week to pull an $40 eullen atvenwwng NG play dead.
sccount {roma firm that helped Northwont => Wather Metreman,
Altlines promote ai new smelting: ben—=the» + Tobwere tisulute ever grveadont
tobacco Industry is extending the aguressive
tactics ft has long used In pales and person:
at injury litigation, net going to roll of remere: te _

“It: we'te attacked, we're: ' Gf Gaoklog cuntomers, the tobacco
over and mates we Walker’ leery man. nies have siticked Northwew's safety a

vice present of the Tobseco. Institute: an.
induaery tradé organization. "The soccer sur and nonsmokers te stay of the bf .
adversaries, (rivudly. or otherwise; learn One newsletter, sent to more ier } mllliog
that, theless difficulty they're: goung to And preole by Phurp Morns Coa Inc,, Genigratrd
themselves ia.” Vorthwest fot ts boot crt performance
cent weelis, the Industry has been at: and... $39 transgressions. iF .
; tampng to improes that raessage ort Northe lion Administration saodards The newsjet-
wast Ajrlines;.the Mionespolis-based carmer fee SNORR 84, Col |

Guefomier serviee reened, areing “qaokers

EQ Teyesay, Avex. 7,190 +8:

Pad

 

Tobacco Firms Turn Up Heat

 

SMOAR Fras Bi:

eR OPI Ey
tev. suggested that: aaakers voice
their complaints by calling Northe

west's loilifree: customer service.
faumber, which way provialed! to read:
n

broader campaiga to turn up the
het on amolung den proponent.

“Toouhd suggest thst erpuuzans

* that dineriminate sgaran one-thard lof,
the edu: log | who 2

  
   
 

      

th, a

fs company: drswaia dustinction be:
tween auch rentrictinns as arluing
ah ae Aoremokers and out:

ght auch 38 Cha inne adopted
Northwest. A ban is clearly, dusting :
artory:” he goa.

“Tt continues to be a very ARR eR
alve progrsny andiwhen an outlit hke
Northwest'Airlinen, wha h han one of
the worst prmenger: wirvire recurs
ih the crure industry, atemoty, 19
Sicas aver stan redibly poor pertnes
mance by hlaming smoking, that

“Winphy raves the ante even higher,”
uid Merryman.

Anger over the Nerthwest:haniat
RR Nabrycoscust the advertinung
firm. Sich) & Saatche an account

NYY hubp
premdent. Siuth noted, however, that

that Brough? in between $70 miDtor:
ad $80 malion senuaily, according

10 advertising executives. ‘The firiig
posete up the new financial clout es-
Yored by tobacco comnpanies ence 9
spate of mergers in the. industry
three years ago, when Phils Marrig

combared with General Frode Corp,

tnd Ry, Reynokis merged with Na.
“We dan, have @: poatt of, view
adoul smoking,” said: Petar F.
i = ne Pn preewent Of Saatchi
ont, “I'm very. disspoointed
that thet happened to us... fsa’
blow to us bul: we'll reeaver,®
The broad financial influence of tie

Marge! labecce: cutipanies: has: alan:

allegted the balance of lobbying ever
smoking awe, accondiig to rember
uf Congress active. in the aren.

“The companies are becoming: .
and vitriolic, but

inj ay mere Peer
they're: sis more ‘in

sense that they're not just the, tobac-
op utduatry snymore—they are part

uf Lrke conglomerates of other:

products,” aad Rep. Henry Wana
(DeCalif.), a promunent: tobacco. in
dustry ‘cvitle,

The increased. eine af the indum
tey's leading Girmaihas helped them
benkroll ambitious canipzigns to

TOUdE CUsOMera iDta apposition:

agunst, rewrheas on waking
pire, susctliny Ost onte that Ine
0: effnet’ toriay: in. Now. Yorx: City,
whers smmking is new prohibited in
Most invvor publi’ plscex;

PAllp Morris now publishes a)
Kesay Quarterly mspuine. aimed at
ahickern that the corapany cays up!)
tehieve.an wopad eirculation of 1D

inition this epein
contains general nteren features as
wel w stlortais wad news Udbits

“It'9 vary clear. that we have pn ine |]
dustry. tn panic,” said Rip, Mike Sym |!
at. (D-Okls.), who hus introduced leg
telation: that: would ban all!

ising snd. peomorion al cig
rettes, “The strongearnt tactics: the

big companies have used: or Con |
gtees for yeary ort now deny ured [If
apart bus :

Critics like Synar‘hope the. tobsee: |
calinduatry's aggressiveness will:
backllze, Office at Northwant Aire
lunes: for example, Argue.that the in:
CUuary’s letter-writing compnign hae
only helped promote its new amok:
fag Bui by atlrecting added:pcbinity,

Vhey have ereaiod. a: pew story
thal may never end? sad Keto:
Tyler, a compeny spokesman. “The: |
PERT CweveNeNs, the threats: . hive
weil verved the etfyrts Us provide 4
smoke ltee wepinne.”

Tobsccg induntry. offasinls, he watt.
fr, deny SMar Ner recent Comnpaigrs
PEPIN businvasos pave aalvecsely
attested their erase. *Lyuyd chink:
that a company [pe meg of Nyethe.
Wast Airlines ca pht ti exert that if
thev ary, ging ty die something ike
they didi.it's geiny: ts growing gute
FIRE onthe, pied vf ee pokes im:
Wier” 6 Mespye an, OW ne
wolin'r 1”