ean D3. (@CDenald FEA Cae! Sm Howe

J. Se N Ae
SS. Can lson
WEI}

The Globe and Mail. Sacurday, February 19, 1994 TRAVEL

, Th

BANS SPREADING

Flights for puffers going up in smoke

/ BETSY WADE This regulation, put Into effect in dropped to two fights, both allowed — seuts, according to » spokeswoman.

New York Tisaes Service 1990 after Con; required [t..bans ine because, uccording to Lor, Delta, Trans World and Continental

HE United States, Canada. smoking on all scheduled flights in Levin-Hyums. 3 spokeswomun, the saidtheyplunned nochange.

‘Australia apd New Zesiand the 48 contiguous states, to the U.S. pressure for smoking from the Brit- — These arc some developments on

are moving toward s non- Virgin Hetends and Puerto. Rico, shsidc was loo great. foreign airlines. On March 1. Ca-
. : .

. smoking agrecment for ait- within A Here arc some recent devel- thay. Pacific will. ban smoking on
line Rights linking their countries. and also to of from these two stules opments on U.S, airlines. flights between: its home base In
The are going on in several if the (Might is less than six hours. On Jan, 12, Northwest climinated. Hong Kong and Europe. which the

ington and This ban affects U,S.-licenced aire smoking in its Rirst-class cabins on. line sa wall: mean that 70 per cent:
jontreal, warters of the Inter lines and forcign carriers flying such ull its Nights, domestle and overseas. of its flights will be nonsmoking. 1
national Civil Aviation Organiza- rovics. . The smail (lrst-class cabin, the air- began. eliminating. smoking on
tion, the United Nations affiiare On July | this year, Canada will’ line said, made it dilficull to segre- Nights to Southeast Asia in 1990 and
that deals with international air ben smo! aboard airlines based gate smokers. The airline said ils says ik expocts to be a “fresh airline”

standards. in Canada. This date represents 3 customer researehi found 70 percent by 1995. .
Typically. negotiators are postponement from 1993, made ai of all Re preferred smoke- In mid-1993. Air France elimi-
about going inte detail. but Don M. the request of Canadian Alctines.In- free cablas; U.S. and European ine nated smoking.on fights to Austria,

Newman, the U.S. delegate to ternational: which stihl allows smok- lernational travellers were 80 per Belgium. Germany. Britain, Ireland,
ICAO, and Sim Weber, the Austra- ing on hts Vancouver-Tokyo route. cent in Favour und international pas. luuly. Luxembourg, the Nether-
Yan delegate, ate optimistic zbout an having banned it on all other runs. sengers based in Japan were only 63 tands, Portugal, Spuin and Switzer-
agroement in the next: sia, months. ‘The line says that 75: per cent of percent in favour. Business class still land, The line. said {thas survcyod
and Weber said Avsiralia. might ssengers on this route come from ‘ovides smoking seats..Smoking is’ passengers and conducted lests on
complete the fotlow-up Vegislauon Japan, ad 60 per cent of them want anned on, all other Northwest. flights to London, Geneva and Mi-
before the end of the year. tesmoke. A spokeswoman said thal Nights except transoccanik, . lun. Smoking was banned on alt ait-
The four countries involved limit Gunning smoking on this run would: = Sturtin March |, United. as a lines’ flights within France in
airline smoking to some degree, but mean a toss of S23-million a year in test, will climinate smoking on Murch, 1990.
such an agreement would tipthe bal-revenuc. Ait Canada banned smok- Flights 90} and 902, a daily round British Airways began @ non-
ance toward nonsmoking flights ing on ull routes worldwide in Sep- trip between Kennedy International smoking trial on Rights from Britain

   

across the Pacific, Internatianal air- tember. 1990, Alrport and Heathrow ih_London. to-Australia and New Zealand, via
lines- usually say banning smoking the four-way talks anticip allowing smoking on the other daily Singapore or Bangkok, on Jan. I. If
unilaterally would pul U aa ty. 13726 flight.on this route. . asscrigers CONCUS. the line said, the
competitive disadvantage on long : d ¢ory- hited will also test nonsmoking dan will become permanent, Domes

  
   

. [igh : on. on ils only daily round trip between, the BA flights became nonsmoking
‘Australia now has a rule Forbid edn Ocrobcr, 1992, was spon- Los Angeles and. Aucklund, New five ycurs ago. and the tine’s fights
Jing smoking on domestic fights, sored by the United States, Canada Zeafund. und Melbourne, Australis. to Europe of 90 minutes or fess be
i 1992, Qantas. in co-operation. and Ausurelia, und was approved by On June 8, the aislinc said, iwillbar came nonsmoking in. September.
with Air New Zealand, banned consensus, $0 countries that: op- smoking on onc daily’round trip be- 9 One of two duily Mighis to Hong
smoking on flights between their posed it did not have le vote cher. tween London and Los Angeles, be- Kong became nonsmoking bast sum-
countrics. . . way. _ tween London snd: San Francisco mee. In September. British Airway:
New Zculand has « domestic non- at unul 1996 comes. some air and London and Dulles Airport out+ eliminated smoking on onc of its we
smoking nile, and, according to 3" lines are banning smoking oncertain side Washington, daily round tripx between Londor
expert in the Embusty in Washing. routes oF flights, either permanently American Airlines banned smok- and Los Angeles und Sun Francisco.
ton, believes that no Further tegise or as & esl. a ban.on one ibg on flights to Canada three yours, «= Quatus started a nonsmoking iria
ladon would be required for u wider airline influcnces competing lines. i and on flights to Hawali on Jan. on one Australia-London flight oF
bun. A spokeswoman said harcoun- This is # fluid situation, so people 13. On Muy J, Flight 100, the firs: Jan, $..In Ociober, it bannad smok
try wus looking forward to reaching who have medical reasons shoul] cvening Uip from Kennedy to ing on three nonstop flights a weel
pnagreement a5 faad’ ssible, check with the line or travel agent to Heathrow Airport in London, will from Sydacy to Los Angeles am
wc Apparently. the United States learn ifthere is a nonsmoking ight. become nansmoking along with the back. In August.all Qantas flights 0
not have to legislate to fulfill a Virgin Adantic is a caze ly of return. Flight 101. four hours or Jess became nonsmok
four-way apes a spokesman smoking and com tion, In June, USAir, which has smoking sco- ing. Air New Zealand bars smokin
said the U.S, Department of Trass- 1990, the line leaped in with one foot tions on its three routes to Europs— on flights. between Auckland an
portation believed it had the powcr. and banned : ingenone oftbrec  Piutsbur Frankfurt, Philadelphia- Los Angeles via Honolulu, Fiji. Te
to ud other provisions to its exist- fights berween New York-Newark Paris und Charlotte, NC-Frsnkfurt iti; the Cook Islands, Western Se
ing cule. -and London. In September, when it — has more demand than smoking: mozand Tonga.

pPSsOTep202