BALTIMORE SUN
Baltimore, Maryland

Nonsmoking Chest Surgeon
Labels Report ‘Nonsense’ |

_-A Baltimore chest’ surgeon who xon, Dr.. William F. Reinhoff sal| P ressman Bans
has never smoked yesterday) said. The younger Dr. Rienhoff ; .
Office Smoking

called the. United States Surgeon!:is a surgeon on the Johns Hopkins
ee

General’s report on smoking !' Medical Schoo! faculty,
“nonsense,” while his son, a “The report.is perhaps a little} Confirmed: smokers among the
Baltimore chesti surgeon who does too vehement,” he said, “butithere| 345 employees: ofi the city comp-
smoke, quietly continued a long- is certainly enough evidence to|troller’s office are in tor a rude
range attempt to drop the habit. Suggest some connection. between |shock. when they report for work
“It's a report that really has cigarettes and cancer.”
gontributed nothing but juggling “We have not the slightest proof |
statistics,” Dr, William F. Rien. that tobacco itself produces carci- , an
wif, Jr., said of the 150,000-word noma,” his father said. “The re-|Smoking signs,
Yeport issued Saturday. port is based on nothing but coin-|_ Comptroller Hyman A, _Press-
Dr. Rienhoff is professor emeri- cidence and suspicion. anti-nicotine ote eokgtnilateral
tus of the Johns Hopkins Medical er ee Prise Surgeon Gen- suprise attack conducted -, “the
| eee gical faculty and a Thinking Of Quitting deserted-for-Sunday offices of City:
embe: whan” Sa¥S°rY De, Rienhof 3d, who emoked| Hall.
board of the Tobacco Research “a pack, maybe more than aj ""! have directed that smoking
Institute, pack, a day” while in college,|Will no longer be permitted in the
“They. have statistical evidence, said he is down to “about ten’ 9 offices Or other work areas of the
and I'm inclined to think there: day now, and “I would like to, divisions of the department’ of the
has to be something to it,” his Phan te 't. tried “The Fedetal repr should cone Meta, aE
hard as T should,” he said. | the abrupt attention of every. “ee
Other reaction to the report,fone. I can't make a one-man
which said cigarette smoking. is| Prohibition, but I can make rules
“causally related” to lung cancer| &% Comptroller,” he said.
. Sepa,
was simple:
Smokers kept smoking, and non- makes in stop and’ think, but
smokers felt moral. Hi or a Mill f the first
Some smokers, like Patrolman|, Heary F. Miller, of the :
Raymond Sienlewakd, threw a¥Ylbe 60 on his next birthday, said
then pes they at a crageed out he. had gait a few years ago, but
‘pipes they got for ‘ o
but had never used - [ras be on cigars to relieve his

“I haven't smoked a cigarette) ~.. said ji |
all day.” Patrolman Staniewski |; Fe Garter said it would. be a

said, biting down on one almost 69g sre td moked 4 couple
. new briar, and producing another Dr. Robert’ E: Farber,

from his pocket. health commissioner, compli.
One Oniy Half Convinced mented the report for “calling a
One of his superiors, Lt, John spade a spade.”
Fauthe, was only half convinced,|! “We're not: going to solve this
however, overnight,” Dr. Farber said, “Our
“This report was suffcient to emphasis ‘should be on the younger
convince me I should cut down|generation. We should try to keap
' them from starting.” -
from a pack a day to half a .
pack * he said, lighting up one of Dr. Farber gave up smoking ait
- : July but said he still has eravinis.
° : "Both Dr, Farber and Dr. George
A city fireman showed even less]; Brain, city school superin-
regard for the Feport. tendent. expected no bao on smok-
T stopped amoking at noon yes. ing in the city schools, but fore.
terday,” he said. “And I started|say a stepped-up propaganda cam.
again at 6 P.M. That report! paign against the habit. vee

 

 

 

   
 
  

S202

DP98ZO