AOMAUA IRLOCUUr TOR ego + POoTloR-So, 26) AM,

BURFELLE’S

LUlill os > #23

TEL: Jun 21.38 8:35 No.007 P.23

NEW YORK NEWspay JUN 2 0 1988

Verdict Doesn't Faze

By Pamela Mendels Rees!)

T SELLS HUGE amounts of food
and huge amounts of beer.

But in the eyes of the financial

community and consumers, New York-

based Philip Morris Cos. Inc. remains

much of what it has been for more than

a century: a seller of cigarettes,
And despite a recent court ruling ina

vamoking-liability case that cast a pall
over the tobacco industry, company ex-

ecutives say they remain committed to |

:
)

|

carrying on the business that has been °

their main trade for 141 years.

“We're completely committed to
cigarettes. It’s been a terrific businesa
for us,” Hamish Maxwell, chairman of
the board and chief executive of Philip
Morris, said in a telephone interview
last week.

Such sentiments may seem surpris-.
ing, given the federal jury verdict in
Newark Monday, For the firat time, a
tobacco company — Liggett Group Ine.
~- lost a smoking-liability suit. A jury
awarded $400,000 to Antonio Cipallone,,

e widower of Rose Cipollone; who died

stun Se ae oat a
of cigarettes a or 40 yeurs,
Pephilip Morris also was a defendant,
but was exonerated.

Some believe that now that one anti-
smoking suit has succeeded, Philip Mor-
ria, the nation’s largest cigarctte manu-
fa:turer and a company facing about 50
other smoking-liability cases, stands &
greater chance of losing in the future.

"It doesn’t have to be a landmark
decision by a jury anymore,” said Pav-
los AJexandrakis, a consumer-goods an-
alyst for Argus Research Corp. in New
York.

ot everyone agrees.

John Maxwell (no relation to the
Philip Morris chairman), who follows
the tobacco industry for Wheat First
Securities Inc. in Richmond, Va., noted
that Cipollone lawyers spent $2 million
preparing for a case that brought in a
fifth of that amount in the jury verdict.
“You don’t have to be a CPA to work
out that. . , that's not a very good in-
vestment,” he said.

Philip Morris

And Philip Morris could be less at . ’

risk in suits than other companies be- Maxwell said thet ’ oy part of the |
eause in the pre-1966 years, when reason, “we are Oovi haze tin ne a °
there was no requirement for a health- Oot oe ee ate in enter
warning label on cigaretta packages, | | Prises ¢ at) have s better growth po-
Morris was the amallest of the major ‘| tential than our cigarette business does
tobaceo companies, Therefore, it had here. But that is not turning our back
fewer customers and fewer potentially on the cigarette business. We'd be
significant litigants, said L.G. Thomas, crazy to do that. It’s so profitable and
a Columbia University buainess profea- we're doing so well at it. Why should
sor who has researched the tobacco in- we pire it up to somebody else?”

dustry. 7 . . ot all Philip Morris ventures outside
For me ions En ip Morr hich the ¢ mee business have heen “Up
spent “mi . r . . . its .
lars defending itself in the Cipollone division two yearb ago, after failing in an
case, according to a company epokes | eight-year, $400-million effort to in-
man, says it remains uadaunid o the crease the market share of the soft
muita — an a social an 11 drink, Maxwell said the company would
climate that has become increasingly have had to wait too long and invest too

hostile to smoking. i
“For myself,” concluded the 61-year- much ore te Pocome a stro ng compet
old British-born Maxwell, who says he Philp Morris has fared better with

amokes one to two packs of cigarettes a Mill ; es
day, “I plan to contimae to enjoy amok- | prs’ moved trom Wer @ Uy Nov 2 in te

ing. U.S. market — behind Anheuser-
hilip Morris executives have — ‘ao i i
reason to be bulligh on tobacco, ‘they | busch Co. Ine. — during its Philip

oversee an empire with 113,000 em- Morris y Philip Morris clearly shines,

ployees worldwide, about 1,200 of ough, is inj ity to a
whom work in the company’s 26-story though, Be ee es ha
sleek gray building on Park Avenue area goes back to 1847, when :
overlooking Grand Central Terminal. ing to a corporate history, & Phili >

This is a company where employees Morris, Haq., “tobacconist and import:
are offered a free carton of cigarettes er of fine seegars," opened a shop on
every week and where receptionists an- Bond Street in London.

awer the phone with the company’s After winning an appointment as to-

“eall for P a Gnpertant'is the fact bacconist to King Edward VI! in 1901,
erhaps mi ane :
that although the company owns such the company began selling cigarettes in

} N
non-tobacco giants as General Foods pieeiueeesia ep and “o nt ually was 3
Corp. and Miller Brewing Co., it de- During the Depression, Philip Morris SS
rives most of its earnings from ciga- found a secure place in the U.S. marl on
rettes. In 1987, tobacco represented by producing economy cigarettes. In cs
about 80 percent of Philip Morris’ op- 1933, it also hired J 1 y Roventini, the A
erating profit of $4.06 billion, even =| tiny bellhop whose ab ity to sing out S
though it accounted for only about 53 call for Philip Morris” made him a Ss
percent of operating revenues. — company spokesman for 40 years. —-

Some analysta attribute Philip Mor N
ris’ diversification to the company’s es
desire to break out of dependence on

cigarette income. ~

/fe-
BURRE LE'S
NewsExpress

o pace 2-Sor_2-C/