Wall St Jen e/y/25

t

 

ADVERTISING / By Aux M. Fearoman.

 

‘De-Nicotined’ Next Gets Pitched
By Philip Morris Just Like Decaf

Phillp Morris Cos. is betting that Next.
its “de-nicouned™ product. will do for:ciga-
rettes what its Sanka brand once did for:
coffee:.

So it is no coincidence that the tobacco
giant: is pitching the new smoke: to con:
sumers just: like de-
caf. Packs of: Next
carry we word “De-
Nic’ beneath the:
Next logo. The
brand's ads proudly
prociaum:. ‘“‘Intro-
ducing. de-nicotined
tobacco with rich
flavor." And, of
course; the copy.aiso
tells consumers that the nicotine-removal.
process is natural.

Philip Morris’s normally chatty tobacco
PR people are still refusing to talk about
the product or its positioning, even though!
Next is being tested in Toledo, Ohio:
Omaha, Neb.; and Hartford. Conn.. The:

 

:, Campaign, created' by Lee Burnett Co.. is:

appearing in local and national media in-:

-. cluding, regional editions of Time, News:

week and People.

But marketers speculate that the com-
pany’s “Smoke Sanka” strategy is de
signed to make low-nicotine Next seem as
soothingly (amillar to pulfers as possible.
“They Nave set up.a simple analogy.” adds
Al Ries. chairman of Trout & Ries: Ine.,

_ & New. York marketing-strategy firm. “In

the minds of people, having ‘a smoke anda
cup:of coffee tend to be things you do to-
gether.”

Moreover, the caffeine comparison en-

|. ables Philip Morris to imply it has a safer

lenges. Some industry critics warn the use
of the word “de-nicotined” ts problematic
scrutiny: At issue is: whether. consumers
interpret it to mean no nicotine or 90 little

+ nicotine that there are'so health risks is
:.: volved. “This word is potentially misiesd:

* ing.” says Clif Douglas, assistant director

of the Coalition: on Smoking or Health.

“Some consumers will. consider. the prod-
uct to be safe or safer than other tobacco
products."

tho fact. Next has.) mulligrams:of nic-
otine,.Uie same amount asin Cariton and
Now.. But’ Next contains significantly.
higher levels of tar:)!

Marketers also question Next's focus on:
the issue of choice in the ad copy. Some:
ads boast that the brand “offers smokers a:
choice they have never had.” Others de-:
clare: “The: Next choice is yours: But:an:
ad man for a rival tobacco company 'cau-
tions: “If you are a smoker wormed about
tar and nicotine and you: are invited to:
make choices,. your. next choice may. be to
quit altogether.”

In any event, Philip Morris clearly be-
lieves it has'a winner on its hands... Distnb-

utors in the citles where the brandis being:

tested say‘ the company is sparing no:ex-

pense to: launch the: product, even by. its:

own lavish standards. Asan incentive for

distributors to take on the: brand. Philip:
Morris is paying them $60.4 case—double:
the industry's standard rate. Even more:

unusual, salespeople are getting, pald a
handsome 20 ‘cents for every carton they
sell.

At. Geo. Canalos: Ine., Dennis: Grahi.,.
vice president of. merchandising. says he:
hasn't even begun giving: hls: Toledo-area.
customers introductory. “buy. one, get one:
free’ deals. but has already had to reorder:

Next three times. “I think Philip Morris ts
on to something.” he says:

Greg Moses: a twopack-a-day. Cam-
bridge Lights smoker in Sandusky, Ohio.
who has sampled Next, agrees. “Caritons
and Now are like sucking.on air,” Mr. Mo-
ses says. “These Nexts havea flavor. and
that's what a. smoker wants.”

eal

BIELIESZOR