JUL 14 185

AMA Proposal Includes Regulating
Tobacco as “Drug Delivery Vehicle’

TOBACCO, From Al ~

and that the industry deliberately con-
cealed its knowledge from the public
and the courts,

“No right-thinking individual can ig-
nore the evidence” of tobacco industry
duplicity, the JAMA editorial conclud-
ed, “We should all be outraged, and we
should force the removal of: this
seourge from our nation and by so do-
ing set an example for the world.”

The articles, taking up much of ‘next
week's issue of JAMA, are based on an
exhaustive analysis of internal tobacco
industry documents conducted by a
team headed by Stanton A. Glantz of
the University of California at San
Francisco, a prominent ant-smoking
activist, The Brown & Williamson To-
bacco Company documents have been
the subject of newspaper articles and
congressional hearings over the past
year. The five articles provide the
scientific review of the materials. vis
though the major findings have been
widely reported, Glantz said this schol-
arly approach could serve as a guide
for regulators, lawmakers, judges and
others. “I see the big effect of these
papers on the policymaking process,”
Glantz said.

The Brown & Williamson Tobacco
Company issued 2 statement calling
the JAMA articles “little more than a
cherry-picking exercise” that selec-
tively quoted statements from thou-
sands of pages of documents stolen
from the company.

Administration officials said yester-
day that White House and FDA offi-
cials have been discussing options
aimed at stopping the sale or promo-
tion of tobacco products to minors.
They said the discussions had reached
“senior political levels” within the

 

White House but that the president
had not been directly involved, and
that no plan had been presented to

Reports that the administration

could be nearing a decision on whether :

to give the FDA regulatory authority
over tobacco sparked a furor among
lawmakers.

House Speaker Newt Gingrich (R-
Ga.) said the FDA had “lost its mind”
for “picking a brand new fight when we
haven’t won the far more serious
fights about crack and cocaine and her-
cin.” Other lawmakers called for the
resignation of FDA Commissioner Da-
vid A. Kessler.

But Rep. Henry A. Waxman (D-
Calif.) said that the opposition to regu-
lation was coordinated by the political-
ly powerful tobacco industry. “When
the industry tells them to jump, the
only question is, how high?” he said.

Clinton said yesterday in a Rose
Garden appearance that he was most
concerned with “the impact of ciga-
rette smoking, particularly on our
young people.”

In a statement yesterday, Kessler
said, “The focus of our attention is to
find ways to discourage children from
starting [to smoke] in the first place.
The administration is discussing what
options to pursue, and as normally
happens, any significant proposed reg-
wation involves discussions with de-
partment and White House officials.”

Administration sources said yester-
day that in recent weeks, policymak-
ers have been discussing five or six
regulatory “option papers,” focusing on
blocking tobacco marketing and sales
to minors,

Regulatory actions under discussion
between officials in the department of
Health and Human Services, the White

House and the agency include prohibit-
ing sales via vending machines: and
other unrestricted distribution meth-
ods such as handing out free’ samples
at sporting events. Other proposals in-
clude restricting advertising designed
to appeal to children or teenagers.

But a broader, more comprehensive
regulatory scheme being discussed
over the past year is apparently not
now under consideration. That contro-
yersial proposal would have mandated
the slow reduction of nicotine levels in
tobacco products over a period of 10
or more years, eventually rendering
them non-addictive. Such a program—
if it could have been implemented and

if a threshold for addictiveness could:

be established—could have allowed
youngsters to engage in experimenta-
tion without becoming hooked, its ad-
yocates claimed. But the plan never

* made it to the White House, sources

within the administration said.

Neither Kessler nor the .AMA is
recommending a total ban on the sale
of tobacco products, James S. Todd,
executive vice president of the Ameri-
can Medical Association, said in an in-
terview yesterday, “Prohibition really
doesn’t work. What we want to con-
centrate on is education” and prevent-
ing young people from taking up the
tobacco habit.

Brennan Dawson, spokeswoman for
the Tobacco Institute, said yesterday
that her organization believes that the
FDA does not have the authority to
regulate its products, but added, “If
what the administration is talking
about is reducing youth smoking,
that’s certainly a goal shared by the to-
baceb industry.”

Staff writer Ann Devroy contributed
to this report. :

CHCTLLDPOS