ADVERTISINC

 

Philip Morris
Plans an Attack’:
OnEPA A Report

By EBEN SHAPIRO
Staff Reporter of Tuk WALL STRERT JOURNAL
The new management team at Philip
Morris Cos. is going on the attack. .
The company’s two top executives told
Wall Street analysts in New York last night’

. that Philip Morris plans to unleash:a-

barrage of newspaper advertisements crit-
ical of media coverage of the secondhand

. Smoke issue. The advertisements repro- .

duce parts of an article from Forbes*

-»MediaCritic magazine attacking medja

coverage of the possible hazards posed By -
secondhand smoke. They will run asa
series over five days next week in major
newspapers, including the New York.

Times, the Washington Post and The Wall -

Street Journal. The advertisements end
with the slogan “In any controversy, facts _
must matter.” a

The nation’s largest tobacco company
has several reasons for the counterattacks.
Competitors have privately criticized the
company for sitting out much of this year’s
frenzied debate on tobacco. Now its new
chairman, R. William Murray, and presi

dent and chief executive officer, Geoffrey |

C. Bible, are eager to confirm Wall Street
and employee expectations that they will
be feistier combatants than their predeces-
sor, Michael A. Miles, who resigned last
week. Mr. Miles, a veteran of the food
industry, was never comfortable jumping
into the tobacco fray.

At a briefing with Mr. Murray and
Mr. Bible on Tuesday, top managers
at the company’s Miller Brewing unit
asked several questions about how the
company planned to fight back more
effectively.

The advertisements also continue an
industry assault on a government report
that has had a major impact on the indus-
try. RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp., which is
running an extensive series of ads stress-
ing ‘‘accommodation’’ on smoking issues,
has already taken aim at the secondhand
smoke report.

THE WALL STREET J ve FRIDAY, JUNE 24, 1904, Bt

Hundreds of municipalities and corpo-
rations have implemented harsh restric-
tions on smoking based on a 1993 Environ:
ment Protection Agency report claiming
that secondhand smoke was responsible
for about 3,000 lung-cancer deaths a year..
The industry has filed suit against the
EPA, seeking: to have the report with:.
drawn, accusing the agency of ‘faulty.
science.”

RJR has since expanded its campaign
beyond secondhand smoke and recently
ran an advertisement headlined “Today
It’s Cigarettes. Tomorrow?” suggesting
that bans on caffeine, alcohol and ham-
burgers might be next.

Philip. Morris executives said addi-
tional advertising beyond next week’s
series of ads is likely but declined to be
more specific. Despite the barrage of at-
tacks on the industry, Philip Morris pre-
viously ran issue advertising sparingly.

Inside the company, the more aggres-
sive posture is seen as coming from Mr,
Bible, the veteran tobacco executive who is
known for responding swiftly to attacks, be
it on the political front or from price-cut-
ting rivals.

At the same meeting with Wall Street

analysts, Mr. Bible also projected higher: -

than-expected profit for Philip Morris this
year. Mr. Bible said Philip Morris's earn-
ings for the year would be close to 1992
levels, when the company earned $5.45 a

. share, according to analysts at the meet:
ing. The consensus estimate had been .

about $5.35 a share. The company didn’t

return calls seeking comment.
Gary Black, an analyst with Sanford c

Bernstein, said the new management is _
‘determined to prove that the domestic

tobacco business remains highly profit-

"able. “They are going to pick the highest

number on the street and beat it,” Mr;

Black said.
But shareholders at the meeting were

less bullish. Bruce Gregory, a portfolio
manager for Progressive Partners, a large

Please Turn to Page B8, Column 4

»

SOELLOLSOZ

.»*»