JAN-31-G6G@ MON BS5:4@a@ PM

FRI NOV 25 ap

Dallas nor News

ree, Associates
{ atten and Media Strategios

“advocates, ig the result of dramatic

“pacco case in January 1994 for $173

eaeaanggagag.

asttlament ts a tremendous develop-
ment,” said Mr. Potter, who is now
in private practice Lo Austin, ‘Ifthe
bulk of the decline {n sales is from
teenagers, then that would be the
best news.” Efforts to contact Texas

State to get .
less money

Attorney General John Cornyn and
from tobacco Se"

spokesman for the tobacco
companies said the industry is not

Decline in sales affects prepared wo relcase its solos num-
“wy a? Derg at this time. However, lawyers

settlement payments’ in Texas, Misslstpp!, Flotida and
. "+ , Connecticut — the states that led

By. Mark Curriden “the legal fight against the industry
Leqol Affaire Writer ef The DallusMorcingNews' - -—— sald Thursday they have bean

informed by tobacco offictals that

consumption has dropped 7 percent
to 10 percent since the price in-

creases went into effect.

Under the deals signed by Missls-
appl, Florida, Minnesota and Texas,
which settled their cases first, the
tobacco compenies can subtract a
fraction of thelr losses resulting
from a decline in consumption
from their payments to the states. if
sales decline 10 percents, the indus
try can decreass its payment to the
state by 9.8 percent.

However, those deductions
would be offset by penalties the in-
dustry will bave to pay if the tobac-
co companies report Increased prof-
itg during the past year. And the
industry also has to increase Its pay-
ments to the states by 3 percent @
year or the rate of inflation, which-
ever Ly higher,

“It's a very complicated formula
designed to make sure the tobacco
companies are given credit for a
reduction, in their revenues but al-
so held accountable for their ac
billion, the decline in consumption - tions,” Mississipp! Attorney Gener-
could mean $50 million t9 $78 mif- : al Mike Moore sald in an interview
Mon leas in payments to the state's | in 1997 when these provisions of
treasury [n the next five weeks. If | the deal ware developed. “The bot.
cigarette sales continue te decrease, | tom line is, I would rather lose ali
Texas would see its share of the | our state money in retura for every.
tobacco money drop by §260 million " one stopping smoking,” sald Mr.

uring c years — mone Moore.
on se arendy Boon budgeted oy The volume reduction clause for
state lawmakers and Gov, George Florida, Minnesota, Missisctppi and

W. Bush .

But lawyers who negotiated the
tobacco settlements say the drop in
consumption was a primary goal in
the lawsuits. :

“Tha latended impact of these
settioments was to drive up prices
enough thet peaple would chose no!
Smet tua former Texas aneis-

tant attorney general Harsy Porter,
who led the ns for Texan.

“To see cigarette consumption
drop 90 quickly 90 goon after the

An unexpectedly sharp decline
in cigarette sales could cost the |
state of Texas $200 million in the
next two years, lawyers said Thurs
day. .

Tobacco industry officials have
informed leaders of several states,
including Texas, that consumption
of cigarettes in the United Statea
has decreased 7 percent to 1D per.
cent during the past year.

The sudden steep dacline in
smoking, according to anti-smoking

S0-cent price increase in cigarettes
that wes needed to help the tobacco
companies pay for the casts of set
tling historic multibillion-dollar
lawsuits with the state attorneys
general during tha past two years.

While tebacco critics trumpeted
the news of a reduction in smoking}.
the decrease in cigarette revenues
has a downside: Setudement pay-
ments to the states will also go
down. .

For Texas, which settled’ ity to

ths next payments, which come to
the states Dec. 31. Texas, which has

already received more than $1.5 bil-
Hon in payments from the tobacco

Texas goes into effect starting with,

6.8 9 8 sansa 9a7baKa

companies, is expected to receive a
$326 million check on Dec. 31 and
pone Soos million. check on Jan,

The industry alto reached a mas-

aive settlement with the orher 46
states last year for $206 billion,
However, their volume-reduction
clauses are not triggered until
April. The states sued the ladustry
to recover health care expenses re-
lated to smoking. Instead of facing a
trial, the tobacco companies agreed
to an out-of-court deal that calls for
tham to pay the states about sid
Dillion a year for as long as people
condaue smoking.

Despite warnings by Mr. Moora
and other state attorneys general,
Many state legislatures and gover-
hors instituted the tobaceo pay-
ments into thelr sonual budgeys
this past year to pay for naw heal
care programs, education and bulid-
ing highways. "Fraokly, the pru-
dent thing to do is not to spelt’
specific dollars until they sée what’
they will be," Laurie Loveland: «&
lawyer who helped negotiate ‘the
tobacco settlement for the Northt
Dakota attorney general's olfite,
told The Assoclated Press, +": +

“T think it's a mistake for state’
legislatures to become addicted to
ihe tobacco money,” she said: “- «*

In Texas, a3 in most states; only 2’
small portion of the tobacco setter
ment money fs actually betag spent
to fight smoking or going to other
health-related progrems. ~"- ‘*

TESSETHLOS