DJT-1132

12/12/63

Art Buchicald at Home

Of Mice and Women

D EL ] 2 1y0 SwasimNoToN. | “Ate you'calling me a rat?”
Despite mat pudictty concerning the! “There is nothing personal about: this. I just

effects o( cigaretie\ moking on the human; thought you'd be interested in what they‘re

body, we mpPy to report to the cigarette’ saying these days about smoiing.”
vapanies, who have so much at stake, that}

wife is not impressed with the evidence so

 

“I never liked mice or rats,” she said.

iar. If she speaks for the majority of cigarette aa she point. We are dealing here
smokers—and she insists she does—sales should| "", ence.
continue and even rise as the reports come; “Till bet the mike who lived longer were ner-,

vous Wrecks,” she' seid. ‘
“They didn’t study that part of it.” \
“Of course they didn't! All they were con-,

piling in. .
The other night we said to her, “I see some
one from the American Medical Association

 

has come out and said there is a definite cor-
relation between cigarette smoking and heart
disease.”

“What do they know sbout it?" she asked.
angrily.

“Well, they're doctors and they've done a lot
of research on the problem.”

“The tobacco industry also knows a lot about
it, and they say we should wait until all the
evidence is in. Would you please pass the ash

tray?"
e ® °

: “The evidence is pretty. conclusive.” we said
“J read the other day that in an independent
investigation. they had 20 mice smoke cigar-
ettes and 20 mice who didn't. and the ones who
didn't lived twice as long as the ones who did.”

“J don't. think they should allow mice to
smoke.” she said: “I've always thought it was
very bad for them.”

“They re just trying to dramatize the effects

( smoking on the human. body,” we said.

“TY don't see why we should give up smoking
because mice can't do it.” she said.

“It isn't just mice,” we told her, “They did

same thing with rats.” d

cerned with was cancer and heart disease. Why
didn't they study their mental health? Do you
know why women smoke? Because they're ner-
vous. Do you know who makes them nervous?
Their husbands. Why don't you find out how
many masriages have been saved by. smoking
instead of how many mice have died fram it?”

“Do you think there is a correlation between
marriage and cigarette smoking?”

“There is in any house where a husband
carte throwing mouse and rat statistics at his

e.”

“You may have a point,” we admitted.

“The trouble with all these reports is, the
more they put them out, the more nervous
smokers become and the more they smoke."

“Why don't you just give them up?”

“Why don't you come right out with it and
ray you want a divorce?” she asked.

“I don't want a divorce. I just suggested you
cive up smoking.”

“As far as I'm concerned,” she replied, “it's
the same thing.” ‘

@ 1943 Pveitaners wawennser Syndiaste