wae

Annociatod Presa.

 
   

‘work or at home will coat employes.
their jobs at. nine USG Acoustical
| Products plants, and’ the company
: plans to conduct lung tests to make
sure workers are complying with
the smoking ‘ban. -
“Tt will apply to everybody in the
plants, from the newest hourly
worker on up to the. plant manager,
without exception,” spokesman. Paul
' Colitti' said, at. USG Corp., holding.
company. for the: building-products
manufacturer.
The quit-emoking-or-quit policy:
will apply to 1,500: to 2,000: work-

   

CHICAGO, Jan. 20—Smoking at

Firm Bans Smoking at Work or Home

Workers to Be Given Lung Tests to Verify Compliance

era in eight states, Colitti'gaid, but.
will not apply at USG's corporate
headquarters. in: Chicago.
questions among legal! scholars and.
upset. the Tobacco Institute, an in-:

dustry group that'called the ban an 2

sick days, Colitti said.
He said smokers will be gived.an

opportunity to participate in organ:
ized Kick-the-habit programs in May

ic on. company: time oc: be reim-
bursed for programs recommended

_ ft raised ,

 

..»  Weowesoay, Janay 21, 1987 AZ

Donald Cohen, cochairman of the: that and say you can’t smoke in
American Bar Association’s com- your backyard. . . Obviously people
mittee. on employe rights. in the are going to: have some problems
workplace, said he thinks the ban is with that.”' .
questibnable but not illegal.

“A company becomes. a little in- several calls from USG workers.
trusive when it attempts to regulate
conduct” outside the workplace,
Cohen. said.. “I question whether
that's advisable.”

Federal and state: laws. bar dis-
crimination on the basis of a phys:
ical ailment if it does not hamper. job
performance, he said. Legality
could! become an issue, he added, if
it were shown: that a USG em-.
ploye's cigarette addiction were a
physical ailment. i

But that would be difficult to: The plants where. the smoking

ban wilt take effect are in Gypsum,

prove, Cohen said in. a telephone:
interview from: his Chicago office.. Ohio; Wabash, Ind.; Walworth, Wis...
t and Red Wing, Minn.;

“It’s: one question to restrigt Cloque'
smoking on the job,” said spokes- Tacoma, Wash:; Greenville, Miss:;
nian Scott Stapf at the Tobacco [n+ Birmingham, _Ala,, and Corsicana,
stitute. “But when you go beyond Tex.

82SS8968