Pentagon Steps Up Effort to Limi

 

Promotion, Sale of Tobacco in Miltary

 

By Bradley Graham

‘Washington Post Staff Writer

Stepping up efforts to curb cigarette
smoking among military personnel, the
Pentagon intends to ban such premo
tional practices as military-only discount
coupons and tobacco company pay-
ments ts stores for favorable product
placement, and will limit the amount of
shelf space reserved for tobacco prod-
ucts in military outlets.

The Defense Department's
antismoking drive reflects heightened
concern, Pentagon officials say, about
the drain on tighter military budgets of
lost productivity and rising health care
costs associated with smoking, But the
Pentagon's inifiative has generated
sparks over the past year with a House
defense subcommittee, many of whose
members have received campaign dona-
tions from the tobacco industry.

A decision last suramer to raise the
price of cigarettes sold in military com-
missaries led to heated congressional
charges that the Pentagon had failed to
consult sufficiently with legislators and
was Violating federal pricing rules that

required commissaries to sell products
at it “the lowest practical price.” One
tobacco-state lawmaker, Rep. C. Saxby
Chambliss (R4Ga.), warned the Penta-
gon earlier this year not to impose the
restrictions on cigarette advertising and
marketing that defense officials have
now formally notified Congress they
plan to put into effect this summer.

Although the latest measures afe not
expected to draw enough congressional
opposition to block them, the smoking
issue generally has placed the Pentagon
in the trying position of balancing con-
cems about the health and fitness of
service members against the rights of
members to choose whether to smoke.

For years, military life facilitated
smoking. Mess kits contained free ciga-
rette packs, Tobacco firms would send
cigarettes to combat zones as a patriotic
gesture, a practice stopped during the
1991 Persian Gulf War. Training drills
allowed for periodic smoke breaks, Car-
tons could be purchased in military
commissaries for discounts of up to 76
percent off commercial retail prices.

“A lot of people picked up smoking in
the military.” said John Mazzuchi, a
Pentagon health official who has had a
role in the antismoking effort's slow
evolution. “We had to create a new

educational environment, a new culture
in which the command was saying
smoking is not cool, it's not good for you
and it’s bad for overall readiness of the
force.”

Defense Department attempts to cur-
tail smoking began in the mid-1980s,
although the campaign was limited then
to educating service members about the
health risks of using tobacco products.
By the early 1990s, a government-wide
effort to ban smoking in federal areas
led to a smoke-free Pentagon and desig-
nated smoking areas on military bases,

But raising commissary prices was a

much more sensitive proposition, be-
cause the discounts available in these
government-subsidized military super-
markets are highly valued by service
members. Defense officials were reluc-
tant to single out any product as an
exception. Besides, tobacco products
were big business for commissaries,
generating $747 million in revenue and
$103 million in profits and surcharge
revenue in 1995.

‘What finally prompted the Pentagon
to act were the rising costs of smoking-
related productivity losses and medical
care, estimated at $930 million in 1995.

“We were actually asking the Ameri-
can taxpayer to subsidize a product that
we knew was injurious to health, in
which there were substantial costs,”
said Fred Pang, the Pentagon’s assistant
secretary for force management.

Cigarettes are still sold in the mili-
tary’s 230 commissaries, but responsi
bility for managing the sales now rests
with the military exchanges, which are
not subsidized and so charge more.
Even so, tobacco prices in these military
outlets remain below commercial retail
levels—a fact that defense officials ap-
pear resigned to accept rather than
court more political attack.

“We considered raising prices to pre
vailing market rates, and we concluded
that at least for now, the pricing policy
we have is defensible.” said Pang. “We
have not rejected absolutely that we
would not do something like raise prices
farther. That is under review now.”

Areport by the Pentagon's inspector
general. issued in December, urged that
prices be lifted to commercial retail
levels. “The Department of Defense is
sending a mixed messag é to its benedi-
cjary population,” it said. “DOD should
not encourage tobacco sales through
discounted prices when the DOD health

community {fs striving to reduce the
effects of tobacco on the active-duty
force and its beneficiary population.”

In a move that defense officials see as
retaliation for the earlier price hike. a
House National Security subcommittee
inserted language in this year's defense
authorization bill shifting responsibility
for overseeing the military stores from
Pang's force management office to the
comptroller.

Rep. John M. McHugh (N.Y),
chairman of the House National Securi-
ty Committee’s panel on morale, welfare
and recreation (MWR), said in an inter-
view that the measure had nothing to do
with getting even. “It simply was an
attempt to respond better to MWR
programs, whose major crises are all
financially related." the congressman
stressed.

But the Pentagon is convinced re-
venge played a part in the panel's
attempt to eliminate the job held by
Stephen Rossetti Jr., a former Demo-
cratic staff member on the House sub-
committee who was hired by Pang to
revamp the military stores and imple
ment the new cigarette policy.

“The panel's action clearly was at
least somewhat retaliatory,” said Pang.
“The comptroller could certainly do the
job, but the military stores are regarded
by service members as a benefit. a very
valued benefit, and all the benefit pro-
grams fall under this office. The pro-
posed change would be an added re
sponsibility for the comptroller that
doesn't make any sense.”

Ina letter to McHugh last week, Pang

enclosed a draft copy of the new order”
limiting promotional displays and shelf.
space for tobacco products in military.
stores. Additional measures banning
cigarette sales to anyone under age 18,
free samples and vending machine oper:
ations were being taken to conform to
Food and Drug Administration rules,
Pang wrote, .

The Pentagon's declining tolerance
for smoking has resulted in a drop in the
proportion of smokers in uniform, from
52 percent in 1985 to 32 percent, slightly 6
above the civilian proportion. By 2000,
defense officials intend to cut the num-
ber of active-duty personnel who smoke
to 20 percent,

“We going to continue to push it, but
we have to look for our opportunities,”
said Mazzuchi. “Having been here 24 CN
years, | know you don't win every battle. ~"
Weil take our victories where we can
get them,”