Inhalation of Benzypyrene and Cancer_in Man
\

 

 

-~ by

. EB, Cuyler, Hammond, Sc .D.*
- Erving J. Selikoff, M.D.**
. Patrick J, Lawther, M.D.***

 

 

 

Both cigarette smoke and ‘polluted urban air contain very small amounts

of benzo(a)pyrene, or BaP, a substance which is earcinogenic to experimental

 

animals if relatively large amounts are applied in certain ways such as skin

 

nee - painting or subcutaneous Injection. This suggested the possibility that the BaP
ca “im ebgarente enoke might account for the high degree of association between
cigarette smoking and lung cancer; and it suggested the possibility that BaP
- : . “pollution of urban air might perhaps increase the risk of lung cancer.
: . Wynder and Hoffman found an average of 2.5 micrograms of BaP in the
smoke from 100 American cigarettes smoked mechanically. Based upon this, it
would appear that even during a lifetime of heavy cigarette smoking, the con-
centration of BaP per square centimeter of bronchial tissue over which it might
be spread would be extremely small 2s ‘compared with the dose required to produce
ekin cancer in mice. : 7
: : The concentration of BaP in the air of large American cities is
reported to vary from about 0.3 to 6.0 micrograns per 1,000 cubic meters in ,
summer and from 6.0 to as high as 74,0 in winter. The air of pritish cities 1s
: . . in winter
od . more heavily contaminated with BaP. In some British cities/it varies from 73.0
eos jo). to ag high as 170.0 micrograms per 1,000 cubic meters of air. During the course”

of a year, non-snokers Living in some of these cities probably inhale far more

 

 

A paper presented at the First Fall Scientific Assembly of the American College of Chest
Physicians, Chicago, Illinois on October 30, 1969. -
-& Department of Epidemiology & Statistics of the American Cancer Society, ** Environmental
Sciences Laboratory of the Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, *** Air Pollution Research Unit of
St, Bartholoner's Hospital Medical College, Tendon, England. -§90029946