INSTRUMENT SECTION

(Monthly Summary)

     
 
   
   
   
  
    
  
      
  
   
  

’ YOR THE PERIOD: Pebruary 25 to March 22, 1974

     
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  

DATE:: March 2€, 1974

‘ PACILITY LEADER: Manuel C. Bourlas

I. TOBACCO ANALYSIS

 

A. A.G. C. method to quantitatively determine individual
amino acids in tobacco filler is nearly complete. Recovery studies,

standard deviation and reproducibility of the method remains to be
done.

3B. Conditions are being. optimized for the G. C. method

used for fatty acid analysis in tobacco filler for its application ©
in whole smoke cond ncate,.

wnt

e Work on liquid chromatographic separations of cigarette “
ac, smoke TPM has continued. Tyhe serfes of plug in—-plug out TPM collection

epand subsequent LC separations are being evaluated and a simple way. to:
a 5 make numerical comparisons of a profile type of analysis is being sough

 

     
  
   
   
 
   
   
 
  
 
  
   

D.- Kinetic analysis of the deconvoluted data by ‘the Tbe Eat

Bei ditferential method of Kissinger and the difference-differential method
ree Of Friedman and Carroll is in progress

Bare The Work on ‘the “detection, separation ‘and identification of. :
the" tobacco beatie sex pheromone is continuing. From a normal acid-bas
sextractions cf.ths hexane solubles, it has besn established (via bioasesy
(2 chat: the: sex attractant(s) is a neutral species. The following ob wp
tions have thus far been made during the ccurse of the works tat .

ee . trapping of individual peaks from'the G. C.
ttempting ‘bioassay has not been successful due to the insects
ninside tit\ capillaries both in the centrol and test cases. .

eet. SL ae ~ GC/MS has not been successful to date
v
pig, comperatares required in the gas chromatograph.

ignificant loss of activity indicating the possibility of an ester :
ae TEL OG Lew hae =
4 Infrared spactra of the fractions before “and: after uy:

BEBE are identical showing only strong bands for jong chain
p unsaturated fatty acid esters. .

 

 

week

Sn tet hese nate

ae