dune 2.

Hepatitis A: antibodies are
but illness is not

prevalent

Research on hepatitis A may lag behind that on
hepatitis 8, but a clinical picture of type A disease is
becoming more clear.

The words “subclinical picture” might be more
accurate, however, because according t Jules L. Dien-
ptag. MD, and co-workers, much of the disease
produced by the hepatitis A virus is not clinically
apparent. They suggest it is this sporadic, inapparent
infection that maintains the hepatitis A virus in
nature between major detectable outbreaks

Recently in New York City, in serological testing of
more than 1,000 specimens. this research team foun
antibodies to hepatitis A virus in 91% of middle class
volunteer blood donors and in 60% of poor persons
frotn the inner city. Despite this prevalence, less than
5% of these people could remember having had heps-
titis. The investigators say this is “consistent with the
belief that most cases are clinically inapparent ”

Even when hepatitis A is clinically apparent. Dr
Dienstag told an American College of Physicians
audience in Boston, usually it is a mild, self-limited
illness. Hepatic encephalopathy develops in a few
patients, but, in the outbreaks that Dr Dienstag and
colleagues have studied. all patients have survived.
Thus, he ssid, evidence from these and other studies
euggests thot hepatitis A rarely fulminates, and the
virus so far has not been associated serologically with
chronic liver disease.

Until recently, he says, most of what was known
about the epidemiology of hepatitis A was learned
from studies with volunteers and observations during
natural outbreaks. Now that the hepatitis A virus has
been identified and its antibody can be detected by
immune adherence hemagglutination, radioimmu-
noassay, complement fixation. and immune electron
microscopy, “the means are at hand to test and extend
our current underetanding of this virus.”

The virus contains RNA, Dr Dienstag pointed ovt,
and it is “most likely an enterovirus” of the icosahedral
picorna group, “although a few properties don’! fir”

He and his colleagues report that exposure to hepa-
titis A virus is much more likely than exposure to the
type B virus. A two to six times greater prevalence of
antibodies to type A than to type B has been found in
most populations studied in the United States and for
both sexes The likelihood of exposure increases with
the person's age, decreases with rising socroeconemic
class. and varies from country to country in relation
to their stages of development, emphasis on sanita-

JAMA. June 2. 1678—Vo!l 239. No 22

 

er ee SOE a ee eT

~

   

N aan =. “4
Courtesy 0) Natcone ARES OF ABTA
Agoregosie of 27-nm hepatitis A eniigen particles coated with

antibody {X 188.000)
tion, and perhaps some stili-undiscovered geographic
factors.

With regord to age. the prevalence of antibodies to
hepatitis A virus increases with age in all socioeco-
nomic groups tested, approaching 80% among persons
50 or older. It is possible that these older people were
exposed to the virus years ago when living conditions
were leas hygienic. Support for this idea is found in
the declining number of reported childhood cases of
hepatitis A in this country in recent years. However,
anti-hepatitis A titers in immune serum globulin
collected in large cities like Boston in the last 30 years
have not shown a similar decline.

Another possibility is that, et least in urban areas,
there may be continuous exposure throughout life At
least half the people living in the lowes socioeconomic
areas of New York appear to become infecied by the
time they reach their 20s. But in neighborhoods where
people of a higher socioeconomic class live, serological
testing by age groups has to extend to people in their
40; and $0s before o SO% rate of exposure is
reached.

Say Dr Dienstag and colleagues’ “One implication
of these seroepidemiologic studies is the advisability
of preparing immune serum globulin from plasma of
older, lower socioeconomic class urban individuals ”

The inverse relationship of exposure to hepatitis A
virus and socioeconomic class hes been reported by
several investigators and holds “whether sotivece-
nomic class is defined by level of education, religious
group, working class or prison status. census classif-
cation, or underdeveloped vs developed counir: ~

continued on pay: 2386

 

Medical Nows

Medical News ~

 

  

,

 

1978

 

2329

pps.