alieleitinctien hina y

Asratcan Jovanas or Eripemoocr Vol 106, No. 4

+ Copyright © 1977, by The Johns Hopkins University Schoo! of Hygiene and Public Health Pranued n USA.
| co thot p
| LUNG FUNCTION, RESPIRATORY DISEASE, AND SMOKING IN FAMILIES"? plese
. a arly
uy | RSF. SCHILLING. A.D.-LETAI, S.L. HUI, GJ. BECK, J.B. SCHOENBERG anp A. BOUHUYS The
“pao howe
[3 Schilling, R. S.f., A.D. Letal, S. b. Hul, G. J. Beck, J.B. Schoenberg and A. rental
yi Bovhuys (Yale U. Lung Research Center, New Haven, CT 06510). Lung func- sympt
i! tion, respiratory disease, and smoking in familios. Am J Epidemiof 106: 274- justm
283, 1977. tween
: Respiratory symptoms, disease and lung function ware ctudied Ih 376 parent
os families with 616 children who participated In a survey in throe USA towns. on chi
: Parental smoking had no effect on children’s symptoms and tung function. {
tide, Also, there was no evidence that passive smoking effected althor lung func- paren!
tion or symptoms of adults. There was no actociation between prevalence of ratory
sell-reported cough and/or phiegm In parents and their children. There wos a direct '
a highly significant association between the prevalence of whaoze tn parents oe ad
a an

and their younger children, for wham perente reported thie eymptom. Wheeze
in children was algo elgniticantly associated with a parental history of Alli

 

a asthma, end tung function was tower in ehildron with o fomily history of sympt
{ : asthma. Even after secounting for height, weight, age. gex and race, chil- This 1
te dren's lung function correlated significantly with parents’ tung function. How: smoke
ever, the contribution of familial factors (i.9., paronte’ tung function, smoking, more ¢
and history of asthma) to children’s tung function is omall compared te the Parent
effects of height, weight and age. own 8)
asthma; tamily characteristics; lung volume moosurements; amoking oe
; We investigated the contribution offam- symptoms and disease. Subjects were also omnoki
ilial factors, including smoking by par- given lung function tests measuring forced than c
' ents, to lung function and respiratory vital capacity (FVC;. one second forced ex- the pr
symptoms in children. The study isa part piratory volume (FEV, ), peak expiratory smokin

of a population study in three towns inthe flow rate (PEF) and maximum expiratory ses
United States in which members of fami- flow at 50 per cent of FVC (MEF50%) and Fam
lies were questioned about respiratory at 25 per cent of FVC (MEF25%). apart {
Children of smoking parents may suffer ;

Received fer oublication Merch 21, 1977, ond in unduly from respiratory disease. For ex- Bex anc

finat form June 22, 1977. le. in’ ‘mothers wh heh accordi

Abbreviauons: FEV». forced expiratory volume AMple, ants. of mothers who smoke have flow ir

in first second of forced expiration: FVC. forced expi» significantly more attacks of bronchitis with
ratory vital capacity; MEF50% and MEF25% oe and pneumonia than infants of nonsmok- this BP
stantaneous maximum expiratory flow rates at Ge . « . 1
ah and 25% of FVC. respectively, measured from re- ing mothers (1). Also, children of smoking their h
4 cordings of maximum expiratory flow volume parents who may or may not have symp- signifi
P (MEFV) curves: Per peak expirators flon rate, toms themselves have more bronchitis and of bres
y ‘From the Yale University Lung Rereart ne : . .
« ter, 333 Cedar Street, New Haven, CT 06510. (Re- pneumonia during their first year of life was no
2 print requests to Dr. Bouhuya.! than children of nonsmoking parents (2), .

? Supported in port by USPHS Grant HL-14179 but this was not true during four subse- flow. ax
is} {SCOR Program) and Contract NO1-HR-4-2912 from . respiral
x the National Heart and Lung Institute. quent years of follow-up. Nevertheless, the Ter
sf ; The authors thank Dr. Charles Muchell for hie older children may have an increased inci- adjuste
a fer’ in organizing the population survey, Mrs. dence of acute respiratory disease in
ars leather Schilling for technical assistance. and Dr.) here ci ked cantly 1
a Milheent Higgins ond Miss doan Walford for valua- homes where cigarettes are smo (3, 4). childrer
i ble criticusms of a draft manuscript. These studies have led to the conclusion even be

mn 23